Am I at risk for health problems during travel?
Some people are more likely to have health problems when traveling outside the United States.
Visit your doctor before planning a trip to another country, especially if you:
How Is Coronary Microvascular Disease Treated?
If you're diagnosed with coronary MVD and also have anemia, you may benefit from treatment for that condition.
Anemia is thought to slow the growth of cells needed to repair damaged blood vessels.
What causes autoimmune hepatitis?
A combination of autoimmunity, environmental triggers, and a genetic predisposition can lead to autoimmune hepatitis.
What research is being done for Spinal Cord Injury?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts spinal cord research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH and also supports additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country.
Advances in research are giving doctors and patients hope that repairing injured spinal cords is a reachable goal.
Advances in basic research are also being matched by progress in clinical research, especially in understanding the kinds of physical rehabilitation that work best to restore function.
Some of the more promising rehabilitation techniques are helping spinal cord injury patients become more mobile.
What is Osteogenesis imperfecta OI?
Osteogenesis imperfecta OI is a rare genetic disorder that, like juvenile osteoporosis, is characterized by bones that break easily, often from little or no apparent cause.
Is there any treatment for Shaken Baby Syndrome?
Emergency treatment for a baby who has been shaken usually includes life-sustaining measures such as respiratory support and surgery to stop internal bleeding and bleeding in the brain.
Doctors may use brain scans, such as MRI and CT, to make a more definite diagnosis.
What is the prognosis for Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome?
Most symptoms can be reversed if detected and treated promptly.
However, improvement in memory function is slow and, usually, incomplete.
Without treatment, these disorders can be disabling and life-threatening.
Who gets diverticular disease?
Many people get diverticular disease.
Starting at age 40, the chance of getting it increases about every 10 years.
About half of people between the ages of 60 and 80 have diverticular disease.
Almost everyone over 80 has it.
What is a stoma?
During ostomy surgery of the bowel, a surgeon creates a stoma by bringing the end of the intestine through an opening in the abdomen and attaching it to the skin to create an opening outside the body.
A stoma may be three-fourths of an inch to a little less than 2 inches wide.
The stoma is usually located in the lower part of the abdomen, just below the beltline.
However, sometimes the stoma is located in the upper abdomen.
The surgeon and a wound, ostomy, and continence WOC nurse or an enterostomal therapist will work together to select the best location for the stoma.
A removable external collection pouch, called an ostomy pouch or ostomy appliance, is attached to the stoma and worn outside the body to collect intestinal contents or stool.
Intestinal contents or stool passes through the stoma instead of passing through the anus.
The stoma has no muscle, so it cannot control the flow of stool, and the flow occurs whenever peristalsis occurs.
Ileostomy and colostomy are the two main types of ostomy surgery of the bowel during which a surgeon creates a stoma.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a painless test that creates pictures of the structures in your chest, such as your heart and lungs.
What is Preventing osteoporosis?
Preventing osteoporosis is a lifelong endeavor.
What is Multiple sclerosis MS?
Multiple sclerosis MS is a neuroinflammatory disease that affects myelin , a substance that makes up the membrane called the myelin sheath that wraps around nerve fibers axons.
How do AVMs damage the brain and spinal cord?
Even in the absence of bleeding or significant oxygen depletion, large AVMs can damage the brain or spinal cord simply by their presence.
They can range in size from a fraction of an inch to more than 2.5 inches in diameter, depending on the number and size of the blood vessels making up the lesion.
The larger the lesion, the greater the amount of pressure it exerts on surrounding brain or spinal cord structures.
The largest lesions may compress several inches of the spinal cord or distort the shape of an entire hemisphere of the brain.
Such massive AVMs can constrict the flow of cerebrospinal fluid - a clear liquid that normally nourishes and protects the brain and spinal cord - by distorting or closing the passageways and open chambers ventricles inside the brain that allow this fluid to circulate freely.
As cerebrospinal fluid accumulates, hydrocephalus results.
This fluid buildup further increases the amount of pressure on fragile neurological structures, adding to the damage caused by the AVM itself.
How Is Fanconi Anemia Diagnosed?
People who have Fanconi anemia FA are born with the disorder.
They may or may not show signs or symptoms of it at birth.
For this reason, FA isn't always diagnosed when a person is born.
In fact, most people who have the disorder are diagnosed between the ages of 2 and 15 years.
Is there any treatment for Hydranencephaly?
There is no definitive treatment for hydranencephaly.
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
Hydrocephalus may be treated with a shunt a surgically implanted tube that diverts fluid from one pathway to another.
If there were another anthrax attack today, do you think the response would be different? How?
Greater familiarity with clinical and epidemiologic features of the disease old dogma would be ignored.
Situational awareness, coordination among agencies, incident command, emergency operations, risk communication capacities much improved.
Management of complexity of social media environment and timely provision and administration of medical countermeasures would be challenging.
What research is being done for Cerebral Aneurysms?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions.
The NINDS supports a broad range of basic and clinical research on intracranial aneurysms and other vascular lesions of the nervous system.
The Familial Intracranial Aneurysm study seeks to identify possible genes that may increase the risk of development of aneurysms in blood vessels in the brain.
Other research projects include genome-wide studies to identify genes or DNA sequences that may indicate families harboring one type of aneurysm may be at increased risk of another type; studies of chromosomes to identify aneurysm-related genes; and additional research on microsurgical clipping and endovascular surgery to treat various types of ruptured and unruptured aneurysms.
Where Can People Find More Information About Heritable Disorders of Connective Tissue ?
People with heritable disorders of connective tissue can contact professional and support groups that can supply more detailed information than is found here.
Most of them also have Internet websites.
Some major groups are listed below.
What Is Excessive Blood Clotting?
Excessive blood clotting has many causes.
Problems with the blood, blood vessel defects, or other factors can cause the condition.
Regardless of the cause, blood clots can limit or block blood flow.
This can damage the body's organs and may even cause death.
What research is being done for Hydrocephalus?
The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of fundamental studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to protect, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as hydrocephalus.
How Does a TBI Affect Consciousness?
Advances in imaging and other technologies have led to devices that help differentiate among the variety of unconscious states.
For example, an imaging test that shows activity in the brainstem but little or no activity in the upper brain would lead a physician to a diagnosis of vegetative state and exclude diagnoses of brain death and locked-in syndrome.
On the other hand, an imaging test that shows activity in the upper brain with little activity in the brainstem would confirm a diagnosis of locked-in syndrome, while invalidating a diagnosis of brain death or vegetative state.
The use of CT and MRI is standard in TBI treatment, but other imaging and diagnostic techniques that may be used to confirm a particular diagnosis include cerebral angiography, electroencephalography EEG, transcranial Doppler ultrasound, and single photon emission computed tomography SPECT.
What is Lactose intolerance?
Lactose intolerance is a common condition that is more likely to occur in adulthood, with a higher incidence in older adults.
How can hepatitis A be prevented?
The hepatitis A vaccine offers immunity to adults and children older than age 1.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends routine hepatitis A vaccination for children aged 12 to 23 months and for adults who are at high risk for infection.
Treatment with immune globulin can provide short-term immunity to hepatitis A when given before exposure or within 2 weeks of exposure to the virus.
Avoiding tap water when traveling internationally and practicing good hygiene and sanitation also help prevent hepatitis A.
What is Tobacco use?
Tobacco use is a major preventable cause of premature death and disease worldwide.
What is skin cancer?
Skin cancer can almost always be cured when it's found and treated early.
That's why it's a good idea to check your skin regularly for new growths like moles or lumps or changes in old growths.
Tell your doctor or nurse right away if you find a change.
Who Is at Risk for Heart Block?
The risk factors for congenital and acquired heart block are different.
What is Hairy cell leukemia?
Hairy cell leukemia is a cancer of the blood and bone marrow.
What Does Echocardiography Show?
The size of your heart.
An enlarged heart might be the result of high blood pressure, leaky heart valves, or heart failure.
Echo also can detect increased thickness of the ventricles the heart's lower chambers.
Increased thickness may be due to high blood pressure, heart valve disease, or congenital heart defects.
What research is being done for Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease?
NINDS supports research on gene-linked disorders, including the leukodystrophies.
The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure them.
What should you expect during Bronchoscopy?
Bronchoalveolar lavage BRON-ko-al-VE-o-lar la-VAHZH.
For this method, your doctor passes a small amount of saline solution salt water through the bronchoscope and into part of your lung.
He or she then suctions the salt water back out.
The fluid picks up cells and bacteria from the airway, which your doctor can study.
What is healthy weight loss?
It's natural for anyone trying to lose weight to want to lose it very quickly.
But evidence shows that people who lose weight gradually and steadily about 1 to 2 pounds per week are more successful at keeping weight off.
Healthy weight loss isn't just about a diet or program.
It's about an ongoing lifestyle that includes long-term changes in daily eating and exercise habits.
What can a person expect after a flexible sigmoidoscopy?
Some results from a flexible sigmoidoscopy are available immediately after the procedure, and the health care provider will share results with the person.
Biopsy results take a few days to come back.
What is CDC's position on mandating flu vaccination for health care workers?
CDC conducts science-based investigations, research, and public health surveillance both nationally and internationally.
CDC adopts recommendations that are made by the Advisory Committee for Immunization Practices.
These recommendations may be considered by state and other Federal agencies when making or enforcing laws.
However, CDC does not issue any requirements or mandates for state agencies, health systems, or health care workers regarding infection control practices, including influenza vaccination.
There are no legally mandated vaccinations for adults, except for persons entering military service.
CDC does recommend certain immunizations for adults, depending on age, occupation, and other circumstances, but these immunizations are not required by law.
What is Pompe disease?
Pompe disease is a rare estimated at 1 in every 40,000 births, inherited and often fatal disorder that disables the heart and skeletal muscles.
What is the prognosis for Muscular Dystrophy?
The prognosis for people with MD varies according to the type and progression of the disorder.
Some cases may be mild and progress very slowly over a normal lifespan, while others produce severe muscle weakness, functional disability, and loss of the ability to walk.
Some children with MD die in infancy while others live into adulthood with only moderate disability.
What are the signs and symptoms of Wilson disease?
When people have signs and symptoms, they usually affect the liver, the central nervous system, or both.
The central nervous system includes the brain, the spinal cord, and nerves throughout the body.
Sometimes a person does not have symptoms and a health care provider discovers the disease during a routine physical exam or blood test, or during an illness.
Children can have Wilson disease for several years before any signs and symptoms occur.
People with Wilson disease may have.
Is there any treatment for Kluever-Bucy Syndrome?
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive, and may include drug therapy.
What is Hydration?
Hydration is a big part.
Is there any treatment for Chorea?
There is no standard course of treatment for chorea.
Treatment depends on the type of chorea and the associated disease.
Treatment for Huntington's disease is supportive, while treatment for Syndenham's chorea usually involves antibiotic drugs to treat the infection, followed by drug therapy to prevent recurrence.
Adjusting medication dosages can treat drug-induced chorea.
Metabolic and endocrine-related choreas are treated according to the causes of symptoms.
How Is Kawasaki Disease Treated?
Medicines are the main treatment for Kawasaki disease.
Rarely, children whose coronary heart arteries are affected may need medical procedures or surgery.
How are the mucolipidoses inherited?
The mucolipidoses are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, that is, they occur only when a child inherits two copies of the defective gene, one from each parent.
When both parents carry a defective gene, each of their children faces a one in four chance of developing one of the MLs.
At the same time, each child also faces a one in two chance of inheriting only one copy of the defective gene.
People who have only one defective gene are known as carriers.
These individuals do not develop the disease but they can pass the defective gene on to their own children.
Because the defective genes involved in certain forms of ML are known, tests can identify people who are carriers in some instances.
What should you expect after Ostomy Surgery?
Once the person is home from the hospital, the first week or two are considered an extension of the hospital stay.
Most people will tire quite easily when they first come home.
Getting enough rest is important.
Gradually, stamina and strength will improve.
Most people can return to work about 6 to 8 weeks after surgery.
People may have certain GI issues - - such as gas, diarrhea, and constipation - - as the bowel heals, depending on the type of bowel diversion.
At What Age Does HD Appear?
Some individuals develop symptoms of HD when they are very young - before age 20.
The terms early-onset or juvenile HD are often used to describe HD that appears in a young person.
A common sign of HD in a younger individual is a rapid decline in school performance.
Symptoms can also include subtle changes in handwriting and slight problems with movement, such as slowness, rigidity, tremor, and rapid muscular twitching, called myoclonus.
Several of these symptoms are similar to those seen in Parkinson's disease, and they differ from the chorea seen in individuals who develop the disease as adults.
These young individuals are said to have akinetic-rigid HD or the Westphal variant of HD.
People with juvenile HD may also have seizures and mental disabilities.
The earlier the onset, the faster the disease seems to progress.
The disease progresses most rapidly in individuals with juvenile or early-onset HD, and death often follows within 10 years.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
Who should not be vaccinated with Anthrax vaccine?
Making plans to travel internationally?
If you're preparing to travel abroad with your family, CDC recommends that all U.S.
residents older than 6 months be protected from measles and receive MMR vaccine, if needed, prior to departure.
Visit the Travelers' Health page to learn more.
What research is being done for Iniencephaly?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to iniencephaly in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research explores the complex mechanisms of neural tube development.
The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies will provide a foundation for developing ways to prevent iniencephaly and the other neural tube defects.
What is Mohs micrographic surgery?
Mohs micrographic surgery is a form of tumor excision that involves progressive radial sectioning and real-time examination of the resection margins until adequate uninvolved margins have been achieved, avoiding wider margins than needed.
How is BMI used?
BMI is used as a screening tool to identify possible weight problems for adults.
However, BMI is not a diagnostic tool.
For example, a person may have a high BMI.
However, to determine if excess weight is a health risk, a healthcare provider would need to perform further assessments.
These assessments might include skinfold thickness measurements, evaluations of diet, physical activity, family history, and other appropriate health screenings.
Is there any treatment for Chiari Malformation?
Medications may ease certain symptoms, such as pain.
Surgery is the only treatment available to correct functional disturbances or halt the progression of damage to the central nervous system.
More than one surgery may be needed to treat the condition.
Some CMs have no noticeable symptoms and do not interfere with the person's activities of daily living.
Why is it called Asperger syndrome?
Asperger's observations, published in German, were not widely known until 1981, when an English doctor named Lorna Wing published a series of case studies of children showing similar symptoms, which she called 'Asperger's' syndrome.
Wing's writings were widely published and popularized.
AS became a distinct disease and diagnosis in 1992, when it was included in the tenth published edition of the World Health Organization's diagnostic manual, International Classification of Diseases ICD-10, and in 1994 it was added to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM-IV, the American Psychiatric Association's diagnostic reference book.
However, scientific studies have not been able to definitively differentiate Asperger syndrome from highly functioning autism.
Because autism is defined by a common set of behaviors, changes that were announced in DSM-V which took effect in mid-2013 represent the various forms under a single diagnostic category, ASD.
How Does Vitamin A Affect My Bones?
Vitamin A is a family of fat-soluble compounds that play an important role in vision, bone growth, reproduction, cell division, and cell differentiation.
Vitamin A is important for healthy bones.
However, too much vitamin A has been linked to bone loss and an increase in the risk of hip fracture.
Scientists believe that excessive amounts of vitamin A trigger an increase in osteoclasts, the cells that break down bone.
They also believe that too much vitamin A may interfere with vitamin D, which plays an important role in preserving bone.
What is Paresthesia?
Chronic paresthesia is often a symptom of an underlying neurological disease or traumatic nerve damage.
Paresthesia can be caused by disorders affecting the central nervous system, such as stroke and transient ischemic attacks mini-strokes, multiple sclerosis, transverse myelitis, and encephalitis.
A tumor or vascular lesion pressed up against the brain or spinal cord can also cause paresthesia.
Nerve entrapment syndromes, such as carpal tunnel syndrome, can damage peripheral nerves and cause paresthesia accompanied by pain.
Diagnostic evaluation is based on determining the underlying condition causing the paresthetic sensations.
An individual's medical history, physical examination, and laboratory tests are essential for the diagnosis.
Physicians may order additional tests depending on the suspected cause of the paresthesia.
How Is Pulmonary Embolism Diagnosed?
Doctors who treat patients in the emergency room often are the ones to diagnose PE with the help of a radiologist.
A radiologist is a doctor who deals with x rays and other similar tests.
How do people get HIV?
HIV is spread through some of the body's fluids, like blood, semen cum, vaginal fluids, and breast milk.
HIV is passed from one person to another by:
What is Diabetic cardiomyopathy?
Diabetic cardiomyopathy is a disease that damages the structure and function of the heart.
What is Vasculitis vas-kyu-LI-tis?
Vasculitis vas-kyu-LI-tis is a condition that involves inflammation in the blood vessels.
What Are the Risks of a Tracheostomy?
As with any surgery, a tracheostomy procedure can cause complications.
Some complications are more likely to occur soon after the procedure is done.
Others are more likely to happen over time.
What Can You Do?
If you decide to have sex there are things you can do to reduce your risk: Choose one partner and agree to be sexually active only with each other mutual monogamy.
It is still important that you and your partner get tested for HIV and share your test results with one another.
Many people choose to continue using condoms in a mutually monogamous relationship for further protection from HIV and other sexually transmitted infections STIs.
Who is at risk for hepatitis D?
Anyone infected with hepatitis B is at risk for hepatitis D.
Injection drug users have the highest risk.
Others at risk include.
Can Chagas disease be spread through blood transfusions?
Yes.
The disease can be spread by receiving blood that came from a person with Chagas disease.
How does the spinal cord work?
The spinal cord, like the brain, is enclosed in three membrane layers called meninges: the dura mater the tougher, most protective, outermost layer; the arachnoid middle layer; and the pia mater innermost and very delicate.
The soft, gel-like spinal cord is protected by 33 rings of bone called vertebrae, which form the spinal column.
Each vertebra has a circular hole, so when the rung-like bones are stacked one on top of the other there is a long hollow channel, with the spinal cord inside that channel.
The vertebrae are named and numbered from top to bottom according to their location along the backbone: seven cervical vertebrae C1-C7 are in the neck; twelve thoracic vertebrae T1-T12 attach to the ribs; five lumbar vertebrae L1-L5 are in the lower back; and, below them, five sacral vertebrae S1-S5 that connect to the pelvis.
The adult spinal cord is shorter than the spinal column and generally ends at the L1-L2 vertebral body level.
A thick set of nerves from the lumbar and sacral cord form the 'cauda equina' in the spinal canal below the cord.
What Are Varicose Veins?
Varicose VAR-i-kos veins are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the surface of the skin.
These veins usually occur in the legs, but they also can form in other parts of the body.
How Is Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura Diagnosed?
If TTP is suspected or diagnosed, a hematologist will be involved in your care.
A hematologist is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating blood disorders.
How Will an Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator Affect My Lifestyle?
Your doctor may give you medicine to decrease the number of irregular heartbeats you have.
This will reduce the number of high-energy pulses sent to your heart.
Such medicines include amiodarone or sotalol and beta blockers.
How is primary biliary cirrhosis diagnosed?
Health care providers may order additional tests to rule out other causes of symptoms.
Health care providers diagnose the majority of people with primary biliary cirrhosis early in the course of the disease.
How do I know if my activity level is moderate or vigorous?
Your body is working at a moderate level when you can talk but not sing.
Your body is working at a vigorous level when you can't say more than a few words without pausing for a breath.
What is the burden of Alzheimer's disease in the United States?
Death rates for Alzheimer's disease are increasing, unlike heart disease and cancer death rates that are on the decline.5 Dementia, including Alzheimer's disease, has been shown to be underreported in death certificates and therefore the proportion of older people who die from Alzheimer's may be considerably higher.
Is there any treatment for Gaucher Disease?
Enzyme replacement therapy is available for most people with types 1 and 3 Gaucher disease.
Given intravenously every two weeks, this therapy decreases liver and spleen size, reduces skeletal anomalies, and reverses other symptoms of the disorder, including abnormal blood counts.
The U.S.
Food and Drug Administration has approved taliglucerase alfa for long-term enzyme replacement in people with type 1 Gaucher disease.
Bone marrow transplantation a procedure to replace damaged or destroyed blood-forming cells can reverse the non-neurological effects of type 1 Gaucher disease, but the procedure carries a high risk and is rarely performed.
Surgery to remove the spleen may be required on rare occasions, and blood transfusions may benefit some anemic patients.
Other patients may require joint replacement surgery to improve mobility and quality of life.
There is no effective treatment for severe brain damage that may occur in persons with types 2 and 3 Gaucher disease.
What is Hematocrit?
Hematocrit is a measure of how much space red blood cells take up in your blood.
What research is being done for Peripheral Neuropathy?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to peripheral neuropathies in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Current research projects funded by the NINDS involve investigations of genetic factors associated with hereditary neuropathies, studies of biological mechanisms involved in diabetes-associated neuropathies, and investigations exploring how the immune system contributes to peripheral nerve damage.
Neuropathic pain is a primary target of NINDS-sponsored studies aimed at developing more effective therapies for symptoms of peripheral neuropathy.
Some scientists hope to identify substances that will block the brain chemicals that generate pain signals, while others are investigating the pathways by which pain signals reach the brain.
Who Is at Risk for Atrial Fibrillation?
Atrial fibrillation AF affects millions of people, and the number is rising.
Men are more likely than women to have the condition.
In the United States, AF is more common among Whites than African Americans or Hispanic Americans.
What is the prognosis for Muscular?
The prognosis varies according to the type of MD and the speed of progression.
Some types are mild and progress very slowly, allowing normal life expectancy, while others are more severe and result in functional disability and loss of ambulation.
Life expectancy often depends on the degree of muscle weakness, as well as the presence and severity of respiratory and/or cardiac complications.
What are the symptoms of the flu?
The symptoms of the flu include: Fever/Chills.
How Is Aplastic Anemia Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose aplastic anemia based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and test results.
What can I do to Prevent and Control giardiasis?
To prevent and control infection with the Giardia parasite, it is important to:
What research is being done for Prosopagnosia?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to prosopagnosia in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH, and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders, such as prosopagnosia.
What is Orthostatic Hypotension?
Orthostatic hypotension is a sudden fall in blood pressure that occurs when a person assumes a standing position.
It is due to a lesion of the baroreflex loop, which senses a change in blood pressure and adjusts heart rate and activates sympathetic nerve system fibers to cause the blood vessels to narrow and correct blood pressure.
It may also be caused by hypovolemia a decreased amount of blood in the body, resulting from the excessive use of diuretics, vasodilators, or other types of drugs, dehydration, or prolonged bed rest.
The disorder may be associated with Addison's disease, diabetes, and certain neurological disorders including Multiple System Atrophy with Orthostatic Hypotension formerly known as Shy-Drager syndrome, autonomic system neuropathies, and other dysautonomias.
Symptoms, which generally occur after sudden standing, include dizziness, lightheadedness, blurred vision, and syncope temporary loss of consciousness.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
Fractures from osteoporosis can result in pain and disability.
In the United States, more than 40 million people either already have osteoporosis or are at high risk due to low bone mass.
What is the prognosis for Hemicrania Continua?
Individuals may obtain complete to near-complete relief of symptoms with proper medical attention and daily medication.
Some people may not be able to tolerate long-term use of indomethacin and may have to rely on less effective NSAIDs.
What research is being done for Wilson Disease?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct and/or support research related to Wilson disease.
Growing knowledge of the copper transporting gene ATP7B, which in its mutated form causes WD, should lead to the design of better therapies for this disorder.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Polycythemia Vera?
When signs and symptoms are present, they're the result of the thick blood that occurs with PV.
This thickness slows the flow of oxygen-rich blood to all parts of your body.
Without enough oxygen, many parts of your body won't work normally.
Is there any treatment for Brown-Sequard Syndrome?
Generally treatment for individuals with BSS focuses on the underlying cause of the disorder.
Early treatment with high-dose steroids may be beneficial in many cases.
Other treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
How Is Heart Failure Treated?
Early diagnosis and treatment can help people who have heart failure live longer, more active lives.
Treatment for heart failure will depend on the type and stage of heart failure the severity of the condition.
What Is an Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator?
SCA is a condition in which the heart suddenly stops beating.
If the heart stops beating, blood stops flowing to the brain and other vital organs.
SCA usually causes death if it's not treated within minutes.
What is the prognosis for Dyslexia?
For those with dyslexia, the prognosis is mixed.
The disability affects such a wide range of people and produces such different symptoms and varying degrees of severity that predictions are hard to make.
The prognosis is generally good, however, for individuals whose dyslexia is identified early, who have supportive family and friends and a strong self-image, and who are involved in a proper remediation program.
What is Paget's disease?
Paget's disease is a chronic disorder that can result in enlarged and misshapen bones.
What is the Prognosis?
The prognosis for individuals with Bell's palsy is generally very good.
The extent of nerve damage determines the extent of recovery.
Improvement is gradual and recovery times vary.
With or without treatment, most individuals begin to get better within 2 weeks after the initial onset of symptoms and most recover completely, returning to normal function within 3 to 6 months.
For some, however, the symptoms may last longer.
In a few cases, the symptoms may never completely disappear.
In rare cases, the disorder may recur, either on the same or the opposite side of the face.
What is Binge drinking?
Binge drinking is a factor that increases your chances for risky sexual behavior, unintended pregnancy, HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases, car crashes, violence, and alcohol poisoning.
How can I know if I have an STD?
It's also important to talk with a doctor or nurse if a recent sex partner has been diagnosed with an STD, even if you don't feel sick.
What is A peptic ulcer?
A peptic ulcer is a sore on the lining of the stomach or duodenum - the beginning of the small intestine.
Who needs to get a PPSV shot?
If you are age 65 or older, get a PPSV shot.
If you are under age 65, it's a good idea to get a PPSV shot if you smoke or have a health condition like:
What is Folic acid folate?
Folic acid folate is a form of vitamin B that's found in foods.
Can antacids or milk help a peptic ulcer heal?
People used to believe drinking milk helped peptic ulcers heal.
But doctors know now that while milk may make an ulcer feel better briefly, it also increases stomach acid, which makes ulcers worse.
Patients should talk with their doctor about drinking milk while an ulcer is healing.
2.
What Goes Wrong In Parkinson's Disease?
PD is a devastating and complex disease that interferes with movement more and more as time goes on.
It also produces a wide range of other problems for patients.
Symptoms of the disease vary somewhat, but they may include problems with swallowing and chewing, speech impairments, urinary problems or constipation, excessive sweating and other skin problems, depression and other emotional changes, and difficulties with sleep.
No one can predict which of these symptoms will affect a particular patient, and the intensity of the symptoms varies from person to person.
None of these secondary symptoms is fatal, although swallowing problems can cause choking.
Is there any treatment for Hemicrania Continua?
Indomethacin provides rapid relief from symptoms.
Patients must take between 25 and 300 milligrams of indomethacin daily and indefinitely to decrease symptoms.
Some individuals may need to take acid-suppression medicine due to a gastrointestinal side effect.
For those who cannot tolerate the side effects, another NSAID, celecoxib, has been shown to have less complications and can be prescribed.
Amitriptyline and other tricyclic antidepressants are also effective in some individuals with hemicrania continua as a preventative treatment.
What research is being done for Inclusion Body Myositis?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases NIAMS, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences NIEHS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research relating to IBM in laboratories at the NIH and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Currently funded research is exploring patterns of gene expression among the inflammatory myopathies, the role of viral infection as a precursor to the disorders, and the safety and efficacy of various treatment regimens.
How Is Sudden Cardiac Arrest Diagnosed?
Sudden cardiac arrest SCA happens without warning and requires emergency treatment.
Doctors rarely diagnose SCA with medical tests as it's happening.
Instead, SCA often is diagnosed after it happens.
Doctors do this by ruling out other causes of a person's sudden collapse.
What Causes Immune Thrombocytopenia?
Normally, your immune system helps your body fight off infections and diseases.
In ITP, however, your immune system attacks and destroys your body's platelets by mistake.
Why this happens isn't known.
What research is being done for Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome?
The NINDS supports research on neuromuscular disorders such as LEMS with the ultimate goal of finding ways to treat, prevent, and cure them.
How is the cause of constipation in children diagnosed?
To diagnose the cause of constipation in children, the health care provider takes a medical history, performs a physical exam, and may order specific tests.
How does a person prepare for an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy?
A person prepares for an upper GI endoscopy by.
What Is Cardiomyopathy?
As cardiomyopathy worsens, the heart becomes weaker.
It's less able to pump blood through the body and maintain a normal electrical rhythm.
This can lead to heart failure or irregular heartbeats called arrhythmias ah-RITH-me-ahs.
In turn, heart failure can cause fluid to build up in the lungs, ankles, feet, legs, or abdomen.
Does my child need the hepatitis B vaccine?
The hepatitis B vaccine is also recommended for children and teens who didn't get the shots as a baby.
Read more about getting your child's shots on schedule.
What Is Paget's Disease?
Paget's disease is a chronic disorder that can result in enlarged and misshapen bones.
The excessive breakdown and formation of bone tissue causes affected bone to weaken, resulting in pain, misshapen bones, fractures, and other bone and joint problems, including osteoarthritis.
Paget's disease typically is localized, affecting just one or a few bones, as opposed to osteoporosis, for example, which affects all the bones in the body.
Scientists do not know for sure what causes Paget's disease.
How is IBS in children treated?
Though there is no cure for IBS, the symptoms can be treated with a combination of the following:
What is Raloxifene?
Raloxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator SERM that has been shown to reduce the risk of breast cancer in women with osteoporosis.
What is Bilirubin?
Bilirubin is the pigment that gives bile its reddish-yellow color.
How do public health authorities investigate cases of GBS?
In addition to the normal vaccine safety monitoring systems, CDC has proactively put additional monitoring systems in place to ensure safety after licensing.
Some of these systems include: actively observing persons in defined geographic areas, collaborating with professional organizations for reports of any adverse events after vaccination, and conducting thorough investigations when severe adverse events occur to determine whether they may have been associated with the vaccine.
Through these numerous approaches, we are able to detect any possible risk of GBS that might be associated with the 2012-2013 flu vaccines as early as possible and take appropriate action.
What is the prognosis for Striatonigral Degeneration?
Striatonigral degeneration progresses slowly.
Some patients have normal life expectancy.
What causes constipation in children?
Constipation is caused by stool spending too much time in the colon.
The colon absorbs too much water from the stool, making it hard and dry.
Hard, dry stool is more difficult for the muscles of the rectum to push out of the body.
What Research Is Being Done?
Scientists at the National Institutes of Health NIH are studying the natural history of fibrous dysplasia to better understand the course of the disease.
Their research has provided insights into managing the disease and its consequences.
NIH scientists have also developed a tool that measures the impact of fibrous dysplasia on the quality of life of people with the disorder.
Additionally, researchers are evaluating the impact of bisphosphonates in patients with the disease.
Studies continue to explore the genetic and molecular basis of the disease with the hope of one day developing better treatments.
Is there any treatment for Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease?
There is no cure for CMT, but physical therapy, occupational therapy, braces and other orthopedic devices, and orthopedic surgery can help people cope with the disabling symptoms of the disease.
In addition, pain-killing drugs can be prescribed for patients who have severe pain.
What Can I Do if I Suspect a Problem with a Child's Development?
Share your concerns with the child's parents along with the resources you have found here and on the Learn the Signs.
Act Early.
website.
Remind them that acting early if they are concerned provides their child the best opportunity to reach his or her full potential and that there is help and support available.
Share the information on the Learn the Signs.
Act Early.
campaign's If you're concerned.
web page, and encourage them to start by talking with their child's doctor.
What should you expect during Coronary Angioplasty?
Percutaneous coronary intervention PCI is done in a special part of the hospital called the cardiac catheterization KATH-eh-ter-ih-ZA-shun laboratory.
The cath lab has special video screens and x-ray machines.
What is Ileostomy?
Ileostomy is an operation that attaches the ileum to an opening made in the abdomen, called a stoma.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Is there any treatment for Brachial Plexus Injuries?
Some brachial plexus injuries may heal without treatment.
Many children who are injured during birth improve or recover by 3 to 4 months of age.
Treatment for brachial plexus injuries includes physical therapy and, in some cases, surgery.
What is Kidney disease?
Kidney disease is the ninth leading cause of death in the United States.
How Is Raynaud's Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose primary Raynaud's Raynaud's disease or secondary Raynaud's Raynaud's phenomenon based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
What is the outlook for people who have a liver transplant?
2008 annual report of the U.S.
Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network and the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients: transplant data 1997 - 2007.
Health Resources and Services Administration, Healthcare Systems Bureau, Division of Transplantation website.
http://www.ustransplant.org/annual_reports/current.
Accessed October 28, 2009.
What Treatments Are Available?
Although there is no cure for osteoporosis, several medications are available for the prevention and/or treatment of the disease, including: bisphosphonates; estrogen agonists/antagonists also called selective estrogen receptor modulators or SERMS; calcitonin; parathyroid hormone; estrogen therapy; hormone therapy; and a recently approved RANK ligand RANKL inhibitor.
What Is The Treatment?
Most people with hemochromatosis should be checked at least once a year to be sure that their iron level is within the normal range.
If the iron level is too high, phlebotomy treatments are needed to keep extra iron from building up in the body.
Why does CDC use BMI to measure overweight and obesity?
Calculating BMI is one of the best methods for population assessment of overweight and obesity.
Because calculation requires only height and weight, it is inexpensive and easy to use for clinicians and for the general public.
The use of BMI allows people to compare their own weight status to that of the general population.
What is Incontinentia pigmenti IP?
Incontinentia pigmenti IP is an inherited disorder of skin pigmentation that is also associated with abnormalities of the teeth, skeletal system, eyes, and central nervous system.
What is Developmental Dyspraxia?
Developmental dyspraxia is a disorder characterized by an impairment in the ability to plan and carry out sensory and motor tasks.
Generally, individuals with the disorder appear out of sync with their environment.
Symptoms vary and may include poor balance and coordination, clumsiness, vision problems, perception difficulties, emotional and behavioral problems, difficulty with reading, writing, and speaking, poor social skills, poor posture, and poor short-term memory.
Although individuals with the disorder may be of average or above average intelligence, they may behave immaturely.
How Is Sarcoidosis Treated?
In either case, whether you have symptoms or not, you should see your doctor for ongoing care.
He or she will want to check to make sure that the disease isn't damaging your organs.
For example, you may need routine lung function tests to make sure that your lungs are working well.
Is there a test for canine influenza?
Testing to confirm canine influenza virus infection is available at veterinary diagnostic centers.
The tests can be performed using respiratory secretions collected at the time of disease onset or using two blood samples; the first collected while the animal is sick and the second 2 to 3 weeks later.
What is Fall prevention?
Fall prevention is a critical concern for men and women with osteoporosis.
What is Babesiosis caused by?
Babesiosis is caused by microscopic parasites that infect red blood cells and are spread by certain ticks.
What is cyclic vomiting syndrome?
Cyclic vomiting syndrome, sometimes referred to as CVS, is an increasingly recognized disorder with sudden, repeated attacks - also called episodes - of severe nausea, vomiting, and physical exhaustion that occur with no apparent cause.
The episodes can last from a few hours to several days.
Episodes can be so severe that a person has to stay in bed for days, unable to go to school or work.
A person may need treatment at an emergency room or a hospital during episodes.
After an episode, a person usually experiences symptom-free periods lasting a few weeks to several months.
To people who have the disorder, as well as their family members and friends, cyclic vomiting syndrome can be disruptive and frightening.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
Who should not be vaccinated with Typhoid vaccine?
What is One example?
One example is a group of cholesterol medicines called bile acid sequestrants such as cholestyramine.
What is Getting tested?
Getting tested is the only way to know for sure if you have an STD.
How does stress affect IBS?
Stress can stimulate colon spasms in people with IBS.
The colon has many nerves that connect it to the brain.
These nerves control the normal contractions of the colon and cause abdominal discomfort at stressful times.
In people with IBS, the colon can be overly responsive to even slight conflict or stress.
Stress makes the mind more aware of the sensations that arise in the colon.
IBS symptoms can also increase a person's stress level.
Some options for managing stress include.
What research is being done for Stiff-Person Syndrome?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to SPS in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH, and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
A study using the drug rituximab proved ineffective in treating individuals with the disorder.
Current research is focused on understanding the cause of the disease and the role of the anti-GAD antibodies.
Who gets Crohn's disease?
Both men and women can get Crohn's disease, and it can run in families.
People with Crohn's disease may have a blood relative with the disease or another type of IBD.
Crohn's disease most commonly starts between the ages of 13 and 30.
What are the symptoms of infection with a tick-borne disease?
There are many symptoms associated with tick-borne diseases.
Infected workers may not have all of these symptoms and many of these symptoms can occur with other diseases as well.
Some common symptoms of infection with tick-borne diseases include:
What should people to do if they determine they haveStachybotrys chartarumStachybotrys atra in their buildings or homes?
Mold growing in homes and buildings, whether it is Stachybotrys chartarum Stachybotrys atra or other molds, indicates that there is a problem with water or moisture.
This is the first problem that needs to be addressed.
Mold growth can be removed from hard surfaces with commercial products, soap and water, or a bleach solution of no more than 1 cup of bleach in 1 gallon of water.
Mold in or under carpets typically requires that the carpets be removed.
Once mold starts to grow in insulation or wallboard, the only way to deal with the problem is by removal and replacement.
We do not believe that one needs to take any different precautions with Stachybotrys chartarum Stachybotrys atra, than with other molds.
In areas where flooding has occurred, prompt drying out of materials and cleaning of walls and other flood-damaged items with commercial products, soap and water, or a bleach solution of no more than 1 cup of bleach in 1 gallon of water is necessary to prevent mold growth.
Never mix bleach with ammonia or other household cleaners.
If a home has been flooded, it also may be contaminated with sewage.
See: After a Hurricane or Flood: Cleanup of Flood Water Moldy items should be removed from living areas.
What Are the Symptoms?
Many patients do not know they have Paget's disease because they have no symptoms.
Sometimes the symptoms may be confused with those of arthritis or other disorders.
In other cases, the diagnosis is made only after the patient has developed complications.
Are there risks from getting an intradermal flu vaccine?
The risk of intradermal flu vaccine causing serious harm, or death, is extremely small.
Each year millions of people are vaccinated against the flu and serious side effects are extremely rare.
However, vaccine, like any medicine, may rarely cause serious problems, such as severe allergic reactions.
How long does it take to get a new liver?
If you need a transplant, your name will be placed on a national waiting list kept by the United Network for Organ Sharing UNOS.
Your blood type, body size, and how urgently you need a new liver all play a role in when you will receive a liver.
Those with the most urgent need for a liver to prevent death are at the top of the list.
Many people have to wait a long time to get a new liver.
How common is constipation and who is affected?
Constipation is one of the most common GI problems in the United States, affecting an estimated 42 million people, or 15 percent of the population.
People of any age, race, or gender can get constipated.
Those reporting constipation most often are women, adults ages 65 and older, non-Caucasians, and people in lower socioeconomic classes.
Constipation is also a common problem during pregnancy, following childbirth or surgery, or after taking medications to relieve pain from things such as a broken bone, tooth extraction, or back pain.
In 2004, 6.3 million outpatient visits were due to constipation and 5.3 million prescriptions for constipation medications were written.
How often should I get screened tested?
How often you should get screened for cervical cancer depends on how old you are and which tests you get.
What are some of the changes I might see in my teen's behavior, feelings, and relationships?
This is also a time when some children may start showing signs of depression or eating problems.
Your teen may also have a girlfriend or boyfriend.
What are Other Less Common Cephalies?
MACROCEPHALY is a condition in which the head circumference is larger than average for the age and gender of the infant or child.
It is a descriptive rather than a diagnostic term and is a characteristic of a variety of disorders.
Macrocephaly also may be inherited.
Although one form of macrocephaly may be associated with mental retardation, in approximately one-half of cases mental development is normal.
Macrocephaly may be caused by an enlarged brain or hydrocephalus.
It may be associated with other disorders such as dwarfism, neurofibromatosis, and tuberous sclerosis.
How Is Restless Legs Syndrome Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose restless legs syndrome RLS based on your signs and symptoms, your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and test results.
What is Kennedy's disease?
Kennedy's disease is an inherited motor neuron disease that affects males.
What is Congenital Myasthenia?
Symptoms of congenital myasthenia usually appear in the first few years of childhood, but may not be noticeable until much later, occasionally remaining unrecognized until adulthood.
If the symptoms begin in infancy, they usually appear as floppiness and a failure to meet developmental milestones, such as rolling over or sitting up.
Some infants may also have episodes of choking or pauses in breathing.
If the symptoms begin in toddlers or preschool children, they appear as weakness during physical activities or an inability to perform age-appropriate actions, such as running or climbing.
In addition, if eye muscles are involved, children may have droopy eyelids, lazy eye, or double vision.
If mouth or throat muscles are involved, children may have difficulty speaking or swallowing.
An important characteristic of myasthenia is that the weakness worsens during continuous activity, with strength returning, at least partially, after resting.
What is A biopsy often?
A biopsy often is the best way for your doctor to make a firm diagnosis of vasculitis.
What is the prognosis for Neurological Complications of AIDS?
The overall prognosis for individuals with AIDS in recent years has improved significantly because of new drugs and treatments.
AIDS clinicians often fail to recognize neurological complications of AIDS.
Those who suspect they are having neurological complications should be sure to discuss these with their doctor.
What causes gallstones?
Imbalances in the substances that make up bile cause gallstones.
Gallstones may form if bile contains too much cholesterol, too much bilirubin, or not enough bile salts.
Scientists do not fully understand why these imbalances occur.
Gallstones also may form if the gallbladder does not empty completely or often enough.
What is CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities NCBDDD doing about Sickle Cell Disease?
The National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities NCBDDD has prioritized its work with an immediate focus on blood disorders that affect those most in need of information, resources, and access to care.
SCD is one of several blood disorders that are considered priorities.
NCBDDD's work with SCD is based on a comprehensive public health approach that includes data collection and monitoring activities to identify risk factors and develop, test, and ensure widespread adoption of effective prevention strategies.
What types of diseases can animals spread? Can they cause injuries?
In the United States, the biggest risk of human illnesses from animals, especially to young children, is getting infected with germs like Salmonella, E.
coli O157:H7 and others that cause vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramping.
Animals can also carry germs that cause other kinds of diseases, such as rabies.
Animals may have germs on their bodies and in their droppings, even when they appear clean and healthy.
The germs can also get on cages, bedding, and wherever animals roam or walk around, and can contaminate these areas.
Who Is at Risk for Rh Incompatibility?
CVS also may be done during pregnancy.
For this test, your doctor threads a thin tube through the vagina and cervix to the placenta.
He or she removes a tissue sample from the placenta using gentle suction.
The tissue sample is tested for various reasons.
Does the IRAT have any limitations?
Yes.
The IRAT cannot predict the next pandemic.
Furthermore, the IRAT is not intended to eliminate the need for subject matter expertise.
In fact, subject matter experts are needed to carefully analyze the 10 criteria used by the IRAT to make determinations of pandemic risk and to rank the importance of the criteria according to the specific risk question or situation.
Lastly, the IRAT is not intended to make exact risk estimates.
For example, many risk assessments generate a quantitative measure that describes the likelihood of exposure or disease risk.
The IRAT focuses on the perceived pandemic potential of novel influenza viruses as estimated by subject matter experts using the IRAT evaluation criteria and available data.
What is Multiple system atrophy MSA?
Multiple system atrophy MSA is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a combination of symptoms that affect both the autonomic nervous system and movement.
What type of doctor should I see concerning mold exposure?
You should first consult a family or general health care provider who will decide whether you need referral to a specialist.
Such specialists might include an allergist who treats patients with mold allergies or an infectious disease physician who treats mold infections.
If an infection is in the lungs, a pulmonary physician might be recommended.
Patients who have been exposed to molds in their workplace may be referred to an occupational physician.
CDC is not a clinical facility.
CDC does not see patients, diagnose illness, provide treatment, prescribe medication, or provide referrals to health care providers.
What is Heart block?
Heart block is a type of arrhythmia ah-RITH-me-ah.
What do I tell my child about puberty?
For girls, puberty usually starts between ages 10 and 14.
Get more information about puberty to share with your daughter.
What is Physical exercise?
Physical exercise is an important tool for persons with Paget's disease.
How Are Asbestos-Related Lung Diseases Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose an asbestos-related lung disease based on your past exposure to asbestos, your symptoms, a physical exam, and test results.
Is there any treatment for Piriformis Syndrome?
Generally, treatment for the disorder begins with stretching exercises and massage.
Anti-inflammatory drugs may be prescribed.
Cessation of running, bicycling, or similar activities may be advised.
A corticosteroid injection near where the piriformis muscle and the sciatic nerve meet may provide temporary relief.
In some cases, surgery is recommended.
How Is Pneumonia Diagnosed?
Pneumonia can be hard to diagnose because it may seem like a cold or the flu.
You may not realize it's more serious until it lasts longer than these other conditions.
What is Gaucher Disease?
Gaucher disease is the most common of the inherited metabolic disorder known as lipid storage diseases.
Lipids are fatty materials that include oils, fatty acids, waxes, and steroids such as cholesterol and estrogen.
Gaucher disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase.
Fatty materials can accumulate in the spleen, liver, lungs, bone marrow, and brain.
Symptoms may include skeletal disorders, enlarged spleen and liver, liver malfunction, anemia, and yellow spots in the eyes.
There are three clinical subtypes of Gaucher disease.
The first category, called type 1 or nonneuropathic, is the most common.
Symptoms may begin early in life or in adulthood.
People in this group usually bruise easily due to low blood platelets and experience fatigue due to anemia They also have an enlarged liver and spleen, skeletal disorders, and, in some instances, lung and kidney impairment.
There are no signs of brain involvement.
Symptoms can appear at any age.
Many individuals may have a mild form of the disorder and not show any symptoms.
In type 2 Gaucher disease acute infantile neuropathic Gaucher disease, liver and spleen enlargement are apparent by 3 months of age.
Individuals usually die before 2 years of age.
In the third category, called type 3 or chronic neuropathic Gaucher disease, liver and spleen enlargement is variable, and signs of brain involvement such as seizures gradually become apparent.
Major symptoms also include skeletal irregularities, eye movement disorders, seizures, respiratory problems and blood disorders.
What is the prognosis for Ohtahara Syndrome?
The course of Ohtahara syndrome is severely progressive.
Seizures become more frequent, accompanied by physical and mental retardation.
Some children will die in infancy; others will survive but be profoundly handicapped.
As they grow, some children will progress into other epileptic disorders such as West syndrome and Lennox-Gestaut syndrome.
What happens to the blood that tests positive on the screening test?
The blood that tests positive will be removed from the blood supply.
How Can People Prevent Knee Problems?
Wear shoes that fit properly and are in good condition.
This will help maintain balance and leg alignment when walking or running.
Flat feet or overpronated feet feet that roll inward can cause knee problems.
People can often reduce some of these problems by wearing special shoe inserts orthotics.
Who Is at Risk for Aplastic Anemia?
Aplastic anemia is a rare but serious blood disorder.
People of all ages can develop aplastic anemia.
However, it's most common in adolescents, young adults, and the elderly.
Men and women are equally likely to have aplastic anemia.
What are benign and malignant tumors?
Benign tumors are slow growing, non-cancerous cell masses that have a defined edge and do not spread to other parts of the body.
Cells in the tumor are similar to normal cells.
Often these tumors can be removed surgically and usually do not recur.
How Is Anemia Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose anemia based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and results from tests and procedures.
What is indigestion?
Indigestion, also known as dyspepsia, is a term used to describe one or more symptoms including a feeling of fullness during a meal, uncomfortable fullness after a meal, and burning or pain in the upper abdomen.
What are Mucopolysaccharidoses?
The mucopolysaccharidoses are a group of inherited metabolic diseases in which a defective or missing enzyme causes large amounts of complex sugar molecules to accumulate in harmful amounts in the body's cells and tissues.
This accumulation causes permanent, progressive cellular damage that affects appearance, physical abilities, organ and system functioning, and, in most cases, mental development.
Depending on the type of mucopolysaccharidosis, affected individuals may have normal intellect or may be profoundly retarded, may experience developmental delay, or have severe behavioral problems.
Physical symptoms generally include coarse or rough facial features, thick lips, an enlarged mouth and tongue, short stature with a disproportionately short trunk dwarfism, abnormal bone size or shape and other skeletal irregularities, thickened skin, enlarged organs such as the liver or spleen, hernias, and excessive body hair growth.
What research is being done for Myopathy?
The NINDS supports and conducts an extensive research program on neuromuscular disorders such as the myopathies.
Much of this research is aimed at increasing scientific understanding of these disorders, and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
Who Is at Risk for Diabetic Heart Disease?
Type 2 diabetes raises your risk of having 'silent' heart disease - that is, heart disease with no signs or symptoms.
You can even have a heart attack without feeling symptoms.
Diabetes-related nerve damage that blunts heart pain may explain why symptoms aren't noticed.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Cough?
A chronic cough can make you feel tired because you use a lot of energy to cough.
It also can prevent you from sleeping well and interfere with work and socializing.
A chronic cough also can cause headaches, chest pain, loss of bladder control, sweating, and, rarely, fractured ribs.
A Pain Primer: What Do We Know About Pain?
The idea of using receptors as gateways for pain drugs is a novel idea, supported by experiments involving substance P.
Investigators have been able to isolate a tiny population of neurons, located in the spinal cord, that together form a major portion of the pathway responsible for carrying persistent pain signals to the brain.
When animals were given injections of a lethal cocktail containing substance P linked to the chemical saporin, this group of cells, whose sole function is to communicate pain, were killed.
Receptors for substance P served as a portal or point of entry for the compound.
Within days of the injections, the targeted neurons, located in the outer layer of the spinal cord along its entire length, absorbed the compound and were neutralized.
The animals' behavior was completely normal; they no longer exhibited signs of pain following injury or had an exaggerated pain response.
Importantly, the animals still responded to acute, that is, normal, pain.
This is a critical finding as it is important to retain the body's ability to detect potentially injurious stimuli.
The protective, early warning signal that pain provides is essential for normal functioning.
If this work can be translated clinically, humans might be able to benefit from similar compounds introduced, for example, through lumbar spinal puncture.
Where do donated livers come from?
Most donated livers come from deceased donors - donors who have recently died.
Adults usually receive the entire liver from a deceased donor, although a segment of the liver can be transplanted when the donor liver is too large.
Because few donor livers come from children, pediatric recipients more often receive a portion of a liver from an adult donor.
Occasionally, an adult liver is split into two portions and given to two different recipients.
For example, the smaller left lobe may be given to a child and the larger right lobe given to an adult.
What Are the Parts of the Knee?
Like any joint, the knee is composed of bones and cartilage, ligaments, tendons, and muscles.
Take a closer look at the different parts of the knee in the illustration below.
How is Crohn's disease diagnosed?
Colonoscopy.
Colonoscopy is the most commonly used test to specifically diagnose Crohn's disease.
This test is used to look inside your rectum, entire colon, and ileum.
The health care provider will give you written bowel prep instructions to follow at home before the test.
You may need to follow a clear liquid diet for 1 to 3 days before the test.
You will need to take laxatives and enemas the evening before the test, and you will likely have one or more enemas about 2 hours before the test.
A laxative is medicine that loosens stool and increases bowel movements.
An enema involves flushing water, laxative, or sometimes a mild soap solution into the anus using a special squirt bottle.
What is the prognosis for Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy?
In general, PML has a mortality rate of 30-50 percent in the first few months following diagnosis but depends on the severity of the underlying disease and treatment received.
Those who survive PML can be left with severe neurological disabilities.
How Much Sleep Is Enough?
Write down how much you sleep each night, how alert and rested you feel in the morning, and how sleepy you feel during the day.
Show the results to your doctor and talk about how you can improve your sleep.
You can find a sample sleep diary in the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Your Guide to Healthy Sleep..
What is An ischemic stroke?
An ischemic stroke is a cerebral infarction or brain attack.
WHAT IS PARKINSON'S DISEASE?
Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurological disorder that results from degeneration of neurons in a region of the brain that controls movement.
This degeneration creates a shortage of the brain signaling chemical neurotransmitter known as dopamine, causing the movement impairments that characterize the disease.
Parkinson's disease was first formally described in An Essay on the Shaking Palsy, published in 1817 by a London physician named James Parkinson, but it has probably existed for many thousands of years.
Its symptoms and potential therapies were mentioned in the Ayurveda, the system of medicine practiced in India as early as 5000 BC, and in the first Chinese medical text, Nei Jing, which appeared 2500 years ago.
What are the evaluation criteria used by the IRAT?
The 'Attributes of the Population' category contains three of the 10 evaluation criteria, including: Existing population immunity refers to whether the human population has any existing immune protection against the novel influenza virus being evaluated.
Susceptibility to infection and severity of illness associated with specific influenza viruses may depend on age, geographic area, or genetic factors.
What is the prognosis for Neuronal Migration Disorders?
The prognosis for children with NMDs varies depending on the specific disorder and the degree of brain abnormality and subsequent neurological signs and symptoms.
What is Paroxysmal hemicrania?
Paroxysmal hemicrania is a rare form of headache that usually begins in adulthood.
What research is being done for Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease?
The leading scientific theory at this time maintains that CJD is caused by a type of protein called a prion.
The harmless and the infectious forms of the prion protein are nearly identical, but the infectious form takes a different folded shape than the normal protein.
Researchers are examining whether the transmissible agent is, in fact, a prion and trying to discover factors that influence prion infectivity and how the disorder damages the brain.
Using rodent models of the disease and brain tissue from autopsies, they are also trying to identify factors that influence the susceptibility to the disease and that govern when in life the disease appears.
Is there any treatment for Brain and Spinal Tumors?
The three most commonly used treatments are surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy.
Doctors also may prescribe steroids to reduce the swelling inside the CNS.
Is there any treatment for Syncope?
The immediate treatment for an individual who has fainted involves checking first to see if their airway is open and they are breathing.
The person should remain lying down for at least 10-15 minutes, preferably in a cool and quiet space.
If this isn't possible, have the individual sit forward and lower their head below their shoulders and between their knees.
Ice or cold water in a cup is refreshing.
For individuals who have problems with chronic fainting spells, therapy should focus on recognizing the triggers and learning techniques to keep from fainting.
At the appearance of warning signs such as lightheadedness, nausea, or cold and clammy skin, counter-pressure maneuvers that involve gripping fingers into a fist, tensing the arms, and crossing the legs or squeezing the thighs together can be used to ward off a fainting spell.
If fainting spells occur often without a triggering event, syncope may be a sign of an underlying heart disease.
How are babies screened?
Pulse oximetry is a simple bedside test to determine the amount of oxygen in a baby's blood and the baby's pulse rate.
Low levels of oxygen in the blood can be a sign of a CCHD.
The test is done using a machine called a pulse oximeter, with sensors placed on the baby's skin.
The test is painless and takes only a few minutes.
Pulse oximetry screening does not replace a complete history and physical examination, which sometimes can detect a CCHD before oxygen levels in the blood become low.
Pulse oximetry screening, therefore, should be used along with the physical examination.
How Much Vitamin A Do I Need?
The body can convert beta-carotene into vitamin A to help meet these requirements.
Although there is no RDA for beta-carotene, the National Institutes of Health NIH Office of Dietary Supplements recommends eating five or more servings of fruits and vegetables per day, including dark green and leafy vegetables and deep yellow or orange fruits to get appropriate amounts of beta-carotene.
What Heart Diseases Are Involved in Diabetic Heart Disease?
DHD may include coronary heart disease CHD, heart failure, and/or diabetic cardiomyopathy KAR-de-o-mi-OP-ah-thee.
What is Venous circulation?
Venous circulation is the part of your circulatory system that involves veins, like the vena cavae and pulmonary veins.
What research is being done for Sleep Apnea?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to sleep apnea in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure sleep disorders, such as sleep apnea.
How Does Smoking Affect the Heart and Blood Vessels?
Smoking harms nearly every organ in the body, including the heart, blood vessels, lungs, eyes, mouth, reproductive organs, bones, bladder, and digestive organs.
This article focuses on how smoking affects the heart and blood vessels.
What are zoonotic diseases?
Zoonotic diseases are contagious diseases spread between animals and humans.
These diseases are caused by bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi that are carried by animals and insects.
Examples are anthrax, dengue, Ebola hemorrhagic fever, Escherichia coli infection, Lyme disease, malaria, Plague, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, salmonellosis, and West Nile virus infection.
What is Body Mass Index BMI?
Body Mass Index BMI is a number calculated from a child's weight and height.
Can meningitis and encephalitis be prevented?
To lessen the risk of being bitten by an infected mosquito or other insect, people should limit outdoor activities at night, wear long-sleeved clothing when outdoors, use insect repellents that are most effective for that particular region of the country, and rid lawn and outdoor areas of free-standing pools of water, in which mosquitoes breed.
Do not over-apply repellants, particularly on young children and especially infants, as chemicals such as DEET may be absorbed through the skin.
What should you expect after a Lung Ventilation/Perfusion Scan?
You may have a bruise on your arm where the radioisotopes were injected.
You'll need to drink plenty of fluids to flush the radioisotopes out of your body.
Your doctor can advise you about how much fluid to drink.
What is Fibromuscular Dysplasia?
Fibromuscular dysplasia FMD is the abnormal development or growth of cells in the walls of arteries that can cause the vessels to narrow or bulge.
The carotid arteries, which pass through the neck and supply blood to the brain, are commonly affected.
Arteries within the brain and kidneys can also be affected.
A characteristic 'string of beads' pattern caused by the alternating narrowing and enlarging of the artery can block or reduce blood flow to the brain, causing a stroke or mini-stroke.
Some patients experience no symptoms of the disease while others may have high blood pressure, dizziness or vertigo, chronic headache, intracranial aneurysm, ringing in the ears, weakness or numbness in the face, neck pain, or changes in vision.
FMD is most often seen in persons age 25 to 50 years and affects women more often than men.
More than one family member may be affected by the disease.
The cause of FMD is unknown.
An angiogram can detect the degree of narrowing or obstruction of the artery and identify changes such as a tear dissection or weak area aneurysm in the vessel wall.
FMD can also be diagnosed using computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or ultrasound.
How do medical procedures put people at risk for infections?
Germs can spread from one patient to another or from doctors to patients.
You are at greater risk from germs that can cause infections if you have:
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
How common is it for humans to be infected with influenza viruses that normally spread in swine?
In the past, CDC received reports of approximately one human infected with influenza viruses that normally spread in swine every one to two years, but more recently, these cases have been detected more frequently.
See Case Count: Detected U.S.
Human Infections with Variant Influenza Viruses by State since December 2005.
The increased detection and reporting of these cases could be occurring for a number of reasons, including one or more of the following factors: First, pandemic preparedness efforts have improved state level surveillance and laboratory capacity to detect novel viruses in the United States.
Second, in 2007, novel influenza virus infections were made domestically and internationally reportable.
And three, it's also possible that there is a true increase in the number of these cases, possibly occurring from exposure to infected swine or through subsequent, limited human-to-human transmission.
What is the prostate?
The male prostate is a small sex gland that makes fluid to carry sperm.
It's located below the bladder and in front of the rectum.
What is Ultrasound?
Ultrasound is a noninvasive therapy used to warm the body's internal tissues, which causes muscles to relax.
How does swine flu spread among pigs?
Swine flu viruses are thought to be spread among pigs mostly through close contact and possibly from contaminated objects moving between infected and uninfected pigs.
Infected swine herds, including those vaccinated against swine flu, may have sporadic disease, or may show only mild or no symptoms of infection.
What is the main lesson learned from this study?
Seasonal influenza is associated with large numbers of hospitalizations.
The results of this study demonstrate the substantial health impact of seasonal influenza and underscore the need to ensure vaccination of people at increased risk of serious influenza complications, especially people 65 years and older.
What is Your healthcare provider?
Your healthcare provider is the best source of information on the benefits and risks of vaccines.
How is the test done?
A doctor or nurse can test your urine for gonorrhea.
Sometimes a sample is taken from the vagina or penis to test.
The test is easy and painless.
What research is being done for Attention Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder?
Several components of the NIH support research on developmental disorders such as ADHD.
Research programs of the NINDS, the National Institute of Mental Health NIMH, and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development NICHD seek to address unanswered questions about the causes of ADHD, as well as to improve diagnosis and treatment.
What are Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies?
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease CJD is the most well-known of the human TSEs.
It is a rare type of dementia that affects about one in every one million people each year.
Other human TSEs include kuru, fatal familial insomnia FFI, and Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease GSS.
Kuru was identified in people of an isolated tribe in Papua New Guinea and has now almost disappeared.
FFI and GSS are extremely rare hereditary diseases, found in just a few families around the world.
A new type of CJD, called variant CJD vCJD, was first described in 1996 and has been found in Great Britain and several other European countries.
The initial symptoms of vCJD are different from those of classic CJD and the disorder typically occurs in younger patients.
Research suggests that vCJD may have resulted from human consumption of beef from cattle with a TSE disease called bovine spongiform encephalopathy BSE, also known as mad cow disease.
Other TSEs found in animals include scrapie, which affects sheep and goats; chronic wasting disease, which affects elk and deer; and transmissible mink encephalopathy.
In a few rare cases, TSEs have occurred in other mammals such as zoo animals.
These cases are probably caused by contaminated feed.
CJD and other TSEs also can be transmitted experimentally to mice and other animals in the laboratory.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a painless test that creates pictures of the structures in the chest, such as the heart and lungs.
What Research Is Taking Place?
Many researchers are studying CJD.
They are examining whether the transmissible agent is, in fact, a prion or a product of the infection, and are trying to discover factors that influence prion infectivity and how the disorder damages the brain.
Using rodent models of the disease and brain tissue from autopsies, they are also trying to identify factors that influence susceptibility to the disease and that govern when in life the disease appears.
They hope to use this knowledge to develop improved tests for CJD and to learn what changes ultimately kill the neurons so that effective treatments can be developed.
What are the different forms of syringomyelia?
Generally, there are two forms of syringomyelia.
In most cases, the disorder is related to an abnormality of the brain called a Chiari I malformation, named after one of the physicians who first characterized it.
This anatomic abnormality causes the lower part of the cerebellum to protrude from its normal location in the back of the head into the cervical or neck portion of the spinal canal.
A syrinx may then develop in the cervical region of the spinal cord.
Because of the relationship that was once thought to exist between the brain and spinal cord in this type of syringomyelia, physicians sometimes refer to it as communicating syringomyelia.
Symptoms usually begin between the ages of 25 and 40 and may worsen with straining or any activity that causes CSF pressure to fluctuate suddenly.
Some individuals, however, may have long periods of functional stability.
Some people with this form of the disorder also have hydrocephalus, in which CSF accumulates in the brain, or a condition called arachnoiditis, in which a covering of the spinal cord - the arachnoid membrane - is inflamed.
Is there any treatment for Inflammatory Myopathies?
The chronic inflammatory myopathies can't be cured in most adults but many of the symptoms can be treated.
Options include medication, physical therapy, exercise, heat therapy including microwave and ultrasound, orthotics and assistive devices, and rest.
Polymyositis and dermatomyositis are first treated with high doses of prednisone or another corticosteroid drug.
This is most often given as an oral medication but can be delivered intravenously.
Immunosuppressant drugs, such as azathioprine and methotrexate, may reduce inflammation in people who do not respond well to prednisone.
IBM has no standard course of treatment.
The disease is generally unresponsive to corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs.
What should you expect before a Coronary Calcium Scan?
You don't need to take any special steps before having a coronary calcium scan.
However, your doctor may ask you to avoid caffeine and smoking for 4 hours before the test.
How is IBS diagnosed?
Flexible sigmoidoscopy and colonoscopy are similar, although colonoscopy is used to view the rectum and entire colon, while flexible sigmoidoscopy is used to view just the rectum and lower colon.
These tests are performed at a hospital or an outpatient center by a gastroenterologist - a doctor who specializes in digestive diseases.
Before either test, a health care provider will give written bowel prep instructions to follow at home.
The person may be asked to follow a clear liquid diet for 1 to 3 days before either test.
The night before either test, the person may need to take a laxative or one or more enemas.
One or more enemas may also be required about 2 hours before a flexible sigmoidoscopy.
Who is at Risk for Stroke?
Some people are at a higher risk for stroke than others.
Unmodifiable risk factors include age, gender, race/ethnicity, and stroke family history.
In contrast, other risk factors for stroke, like high blood pressure or cigarette smoking, can be changed or controlled by the person at risk.
What research is being done for Syringomyelia?
Surgical techniques are also being refined by the neurosurgical research community.
It is also important to understand the role of birth defects in the development of hindbrain malformations that can lead to syringomyelia.
Dietary supplements of folic acid during pregnancy have already been found to reduce the number of cases of certain birth defects.
What Is Asthma?
Asthma AZ-ma is a chronic long-term lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways.
Asthma causes recurring periods of wheezing a whistling sound when you breathe, chest tightness, shortness of breath, and coughing.
The coughing often occurs at night or early in the morning.
When should I start talking with my child?
Start early.
By preschool, most children have seen adults smoking cigarettes or drinking alcohol, either in real life, on TV, or on the Internet.
What is Hydrocephalus?
Hydrocephalus is an excessive buildup of CSF in the brain.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of a Stroke?
If you think you or someone else is having a TIA or stroke, call 9 - 1 - 1 right away.
Do not drive to the hospital or let someone else drive you.
Call an ambulance so that medical personnel can begin life-saving treatment on the way to the emergency room.
During a stroke, every minute counts.
How can you tell the difference between a cold and the flu?
Because colds and flu share many symptoms, it can be difficult or even impossible to tell the difference between them based on symptoms alone.
Special tests that usually must be done within the first few days of illness can be carried out, when needed to tell if a person has the flu.
What are the stages of the disorder?
Stage II, or the rapid destructive stage, usually begins between ages 1 and 4 and may last for weeks or months.
Its onset may be rapid or gradual as the child loses purposeful hand skills and spoken language.
Characteristic hand movements such as wringing, washing, clapping, or tapping, as well as repeatedly moving the hands to the mouth often begin during this stage.
The child may hold the hands clasped behind the back or held at the sides, with random touching, grasping, and releasing.
The movements continue while the child is awake but disappear during sleep.
Breathing irregularities such as episodes of apnea and hyperventilation may occur, although breathing usually improves during sleep.
Some girls also display autistic-like symptoms such as loss of social interaction and communication.
Walking may be unsteady and initiating motor movements can be difficult.
Slowed head growth is usually noticed during this stage.
What kinds of seasonal flu vaccines are available?
However, health care providers should not get the nasal spray vaccine if they are providing medical care for patients who require special environments in the hospital because they are profoundly immunocompromised, for example if they work in bone marrow transplant units.
This is intended as an extra precaution and is not based on reports of vaccine virus transmission in those settings.
The flu shot is preferred for vaccinating health care workers who are in close contact with severely immunocompromised patients who are being cared for in a protective environment.
These health care workers may still get nasal spray vaccine, but they must avoid contact with such patients for 7 days after getting vaccinated.
See Persons Who Live With or Care for Persons at Higher Risk for Influenza-Related Complications for more information.
How can I get enough folic acid?
Eat breakfast cereal that has 100% DV of folic acid.
Check the Nutrition Facts label on the side of the box.
Some examples are General Mills Total, Special K Original, and Kashi Heart to Heart.
Use this list to find more cereals with folic acid.
What is Preeclampsia?
Preeclampsia is a heart disease risk factor that you can't control.
What Causes Iron-Deficiency Anemia?
Not having enough iron in your body causes iron-deficiency anemia.
Lack of iron usually is due to blood loss, poor diet, or an inability to absorb enough iron from food.
Is there any treatment for Multifocal Motor Neuropathy?
Treatment for multifocal motor neuropathy varies.
Some individuals experience only mild, modest symptoms and require no treatment.
For others, treatment generally consists of intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg or immunosuppressive therapy with cyclophosphamide.
What is Broken Heart Syndrome?
Most people who experience broken heart syndrome think they may be having a heart attack, a more common medical emergency caused by a blocked coronary heart artery.
The two conditions have similar symptoms, including chest pain and shortness of breath.
However, there's no evidence of blocked coronary arteries in broken heart syndrome, and most people have a full and quick recovery.
What is Autoimmune hepatitis?
Autoimmune hepatitis is a serious condition that may worsen over time if not treated.
What Causes COPD?
Although uncommon, some people who have asthma can develop COPD.
Asthma is a chronic long-term lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways.
Treatment usually can reverse the inflammation and narrowing.
However, if not, COPD can develop.
How isH.
pylori spread?
Other research is exploring how infection spreads from an infected person to an uninfected person.
Studies suggest that having contact with the stool or vomit of an infected person can spread H.
pylori infection.
And H.
pylori has been found in the saliva of some infected people, which means infection could be spread through direct contact with saliva.
Who Is at Risk for Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Conditions or factors that make your blood thicker or more likely to clot than normal.
Some inherited blood disorders such as factor V Leiden will do this.
Hormone therapy or birth control pills also increase the risk of clotting.
Which foods cause gas?
Most foods that contain carbohydrates can cause gas.
Foods that cause gas for one person may not cause gas for someone else.
Some foods that contain carbohydrates and may cause gas are.
What does my liver do?
Your liver helps fight infections and cleans your blood.
It also helps digest food and stores a form of sugar your body uses for energy.
The liver is the largest organ in your body.
What are the risks associated with drinking raw milk?
Many people who chose raw milk thinking they would improve their health instead found themselves or their loved ones sick in a hospital for several weeks fighting for their lives from infections caused by germs in raw milk.
For example, a person can develop severe or even life-threatening diseases, such as Guillain-Barre syndrome, which can cause paralysis, and hemolytic uremic syndrome, which can result in kidney failure and stroke.
What Causes Long QT Syndrome?
Long QT syndrome LQTS can be inherited or acquired.
Inherited means you're born with the condition and have it your whole life.
Inherited conditions are passed from parents to children through genes.
Acquired means you aren't born with the condition, but you develop it during your lifetime.
What should you expect before Pulmonary Rehabilitation?
Your PR team also will review your medical therapy to see whether it needs to be changed during the PR program.
For example, you may need to start using, or increase the use of, inhaled bronchodilators.
These medicines can help you breathe easier during exercise.
You also may need oxygen therapy to help you get the most out of your exercise plan.
What Is a Chest X Ray?
A chest x ray is a painless, noninvasive test that creates pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels.
Noninvasive means that no surgery is done and no instruments are inserted into your body.
Why is vaccination necessary?
However, measles is still common in other countries.
The virus is highly contagious and can spread rapidly in areas where vaccination is not widespread.
It is estimated that in 2006 there were 242,000 measles deaths worldwide - that equals about 663 deaths every day or 27 deaths every hour.
If vaccinations were stopped, measles cases would return to pre-vaccine levels and hundreds of people would die from measles-related illnesses.
What research is being done for Pinched Nerve?
Within the NINDS research programs, pinched nerves are addressed primarily through studies associated with pain research.
NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for pain and nerve damage with the ultimate goal of reversing debilitating conditions such as pinched nerves.
What is A liver biopsy?
A liver biopsy is a procedure that involves taking a piece of liver tissue for examination with a microscope for signs of damage or disease.
What Is Immune Thrombocytopenia?
Immune thrombocytopenia THROM-bo-si-toe-PE-ne-ah, or ITP, is a bleeding disorder.
In ITP, the blood doesn't clot as it should.
This is due to a low number of blood cell fragments called platelets PLATE-lets or thrombocytes THROM-bo-sites.
What is Osteogenesis imperfecta OI?
Osteogenesis imperfecta OI is a genetic disorder characterized by bones that break easily, often from little or no apparent trauma.
What Is Metabolic Syndrome?
The term metabolic refers to the biochemical processes involved in the body's normal functioning.
Risk factors are traits, conditions, or habits that increase your chance of developing a disease.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
What Is Sickle Cell Anemia?
Normal red blood cells are disc-shaped and look like doughnuts without holes in the center.
They move easily through your blood vessels.
Red blood cells contain an iron-rich protein called hemoglobin HEE-muh-glow-bin.
This protein carries oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body.
Can Infection with VZV During Pregnancy Harm the Baby?
If a pregnant woman gets chickenpox between 21 to 5 days before giving birth, her newborn can have chickenpox at birth or develop it within a few days.
But the time lapse between the start of the mother's illness and the birth of the baby generally allows the mother's immune system to react and produce antibodies to fight the virus.
These antibodies can be transmitted to the unborn child and thus help fight the infection.
Still, a small percent of the babies exposed to chickenpox in the 21 to 5 days before birth develop shingles in the first 5 years of life because the newborn's immune system is not yet fully functional and capable of keeping the virus latent.
What Treatments Are Available?
Although there is no cure for osteoporosis, several medications are available for the prevention and/or treatment of osteoporosis, including: bisphosphonates; estrogen agonists/antagonists also called selective estrogen receptor modulators or SERMS; calcitonin; parathyroid hormone; estrogen therapy; hormone therapy; and a recently approved RANK ligand RANKL inhibitor.
What is Shingles?
Virtually all adults in the United States have had chickenpox, even if it was so mild as to pass unnoticed, and thus may develop shingles later in life.
In the original exposure to VZV chickenpox, some of the virus particles leave the blood and settle into clusters of nerve cells neurons  called sensory ganglia, where they remain for many years in an inactive latent form.
The sensory ganglia, which are adjacent to the spinal cord and brain, relay information to the brain about what the body is sensing - heat, cold, touch, pain.
What Are the Risks of Stress Testing?
Jitteriness or discomfort while getting medicine to make your heart work hard and beat fast you may be given medicine if you can't exercise.
These side effects usually go away shortly after you stop getting the medicine.
Sometimes the symptoms may last a few hours.
What causes appendicitis?
An obstruction, or blockage, of the appendiceal lumen causes appendicitis.
Mucus backs up in the appendiceal lumen, causing bacteria that normally live inside the appendix to multiply.
As a result, the appendix swells and becomes infected.
Sources of blockage include.
February Is American Heart Month: Are You at Risk for Heart Disease?
Cardiovascular disease CVD - including heart disease, stroke, and high blood pressure - is the number 1 killer of women and men in the United States.
It is a leading cause of disability, preventing Americans from working and enjoying family activities.
CVD costs the United States over $300 billion each year, including the cost of health care services, medications, and lost productivity.
What is Cerebral palsy CP?
Cerebral palsy CP is a group of disorders that affect a person's ability to move and maintain balance and posture.
What are the signs of depression?
It's normal to feel sad sometimes, but if you feel sad or 'down' for more than 2 weeks at a time, you may be depressed.
If an athlete or other person with a lot of muscle has a BMI over 25, is that person still considered to be overweight?
It is important to remember, however, that BMI is not a direct measure of body fatness and that BMI is calculated from an individual's weight which includes both muscle and fat.
As a result, some individuals may have a high BMI but not have a high percentage of body fat.
For example, highly trained athletes may have a high BMI because of increased muscularity rather than increased body fatness.
Although some people with a BMI in the overweight range from 25.0 to 29.9 may not have excess body fatness, most people with a BMI in the obese range equal to or greater than 30 will have increased levels of body fatness.
What should you expect before Carotid Ultrasound?
Carotid ultrasound is a painless test.
Typically, there is little to do in advance of the test.
Your doctor will tell you how to prepare for your carotid ultrasound.
.
What is Sandhoff Disease?
Sandhoff disease is a rare, genetic, lipid storage disorder resulting in the progressive deterioration of the central nervous system.
It is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme beta-hexosaminidase, which results in the accumulation of certain fats lipids in the brain and other organs of the body.
Sandhoff disease is a severe form of Tay-Sachs disease--which is prevalent primarily in people of Eastern European and Ashkenazi Jewish descent--but it is not limited to any ethnic group.
Onset of the disorder usually occurs at 6 months of age.
Neurological symptoms may include motor weakness, startle reaction to sound, early blindness, progressive mental and motor deterioration, macrocephaly an abnormally enlarged head, cherry-red spots in the eyes, seizures, and myoclonus shock-like contractions of a muscle.
Other symptoms may include frequent respiratory infections, doll-like facial appearance, and an enlarged liver and spleen.
How does dog flu spread?
Canine influenza virus can be spread by direct contact with aerosolized respiratory secretions from infected dogs, by contact with contaminated objects, and by people moving between infected and uninfected dogs.
Therefore, dog owners whose dogs are coughing or showing other signs of respiratory disease should not participate in activities or bring their dogs to facilities where other dogs can be exposed to the virus.
Clothing, equipment, surfaces, and hands should be cleaned and disinfected after exposure to dogs showing signs of respiratory disease.
How Is a Heart Attack Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose a heart attack based on your signs and symptoms, your medical and family histories, and test results.
Will the food and water be safe?
In places where the tap water isn't safe to drink, you need to be careful about what you eat, too.
Some foods, like fresh vegetables and fruits, may not be safe to eat because they are washed or cooked with unsafe water.
Is there any treatment for Erb-Duchenne and Dejerine-Klumpke Palsies?
Some brachial plexus injuries may heal without treatment.
Many children who are injured during birth improve or recover by 3 to 4 months of age.
Treatment for brachial plexus injuries includes physical therapy and, in some cases, surgery.
What are the signs of organ rejection?
But rejection doesn't always make you feel ill.
Doctors will check your blood for signs of rejection.
A liver biopsy is usually needed to tell whether your body is rejecting the new liver.
For a biopsy, the doctor takes a small piece of the liver to view with a microscope.
What is MICRENCEPHALY?
MICRENCEPHALY is a disorder characterized by a small brain and may be caused by a disturbance in the proliferation of nerve cells.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a painless test that creates pictures of the structures in your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels.
What are the early signs?
The signs of cerebral palsy usually appear in the early months of life, although specific diagnosis may be delayed until age two years or later.
Infants with CP frequently have developmental delay, in which they are slow to reach developmental milestones such as learning to roll over, sit, crawl, or walk.
Some infants with CP have abnormal muscle tone.
Decreased muscle tone hypotonia can make them appear relaxed, even floppy.
Increased muscle tone hypertonia can make them seem stiff or rigid.
In some cases, an early period of hypotonia will progress to hypertonia after the first 2 to 3 months of life.
Children with CP may also have unusual posture or favor one side of the body when they reach, crawl, or move.
It is important to note that some children without CP also might have some of these signs.
When is ERCP used?
ERCP is used when it is suspected a person's bile or pancreatic ducts may be narrowed or blocked due to.
What is Craniosynostosis?
Craniosynostosis is a birth defect of the brain characterized by the premature closure of one or more of the fibrous joints between the bones of the skull called the cranial sutures before brain growth is complete.
What is Permanent AF?
Permanent AF is a condition in which a normal heart rhythm can't be restored with treatment.
What is Chronic kidney disease CKD?
Chronic kidney disease CKD is the loss of kidney function.
What Are the Risks of Chest MRI?
Allergic reactions, such as hives and itchy eyes.
If you have an allergic reaction, your doctor can give you medicine to relieve your symptoms.
What are Optogenetics?
Optogenetics is an emerging experimental technique that may eventually lead to future generations of closed-loop devices.
Who Needs a Sleep Study?
Sleep studies often are used to diagnose sleep-related breathing disorders, such as sleep apnea.
Signs of these disorders include loud snoring, gasping, or choking sounds while you sleep or pauses in breathing during sleep.
What is Arachnoiditis?
Arachnoiditis is a condition in which one of the three membranes covering the brain and spinal cord, called the arachnoid membrane, becomes inflamed.
How is the test done?
A doctor or nurse can test your urine pee for chlamydia.
Sometimes a sample is taken from the vagina or penis to test.
The test is easy and painless.
What is Locked-in syndrome?
Locked-in syndrome is a rare neurological disorder characterized by complete paralysis of voluntary muscles in all parts of the body except for those that control eye movement.
What Does Thoracentesis Show?
Once the cause of the pleural effusion is known, your doctor will talk to you about a treatment plan.
For example, if an infection is the cause, you may need antibiotics to fight the infection.
If the cause is heart failure, you'll be treated for that condition.
Is there any treatment for Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease?
There is no treatment that can cure or control CJD.
Current treatment is aimed at alleviating symptoms and making the patient as comfortable as possible.
Opiate drugs can help relieve pain, and the drugs clonazepam and sodium valproate may help relieve involuntary muscle jerks.
What is Uterine sarcoma?
Uterine sarcoma is a very rare kind of cancer that forms in the uterine muscles or in tissues that support the uterus.
How common is swine flu among pigs?
H1N1 and H3N2 swine flu viruses are endemic among pig populations in the United States and something that the industry deals with routinely.
Outbreaks among pigs normally occur in colder weather months late fall and winter , but can occur year round.
While H1N1 swine viruses have been known to circulate among pig populations since at least 1930, H3N2 influenza viruses did not begin circulating among pigs in the United States until about 1998.
The H3N2 viruses initially were introduced into the pig population from humans.
However, since then the H3N2 viruses circulating in pigs have changed.
The H3N2 viruses circulating in pigs now are very different from the seasonal H3N2 viruses that circulate in humans.
What is the prognosis for Myotonia Congenita?
Most individuals with myotonia congenita lead long, productive lives.
Although muscle stiffness may interfere with walking, grasping, chewing, and swallowing, it is usually relieved with exercise.
Who Needs Carotid Endarterectomy?
A prior transient ischemic attack TIA, also called a mini-stroke.
During a TIA, you may have some or all of the symptoms of a stroke.
However, the symptoms usually last less than 1 - 2 hours although they may last up to 24 hours.

What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a painless test that creates a picture of the structures in your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels.
What is Alagille syndrome?
Alagille syndrome is a genetic disorder in which a person has fewer than the normal number of bile ducts in the liver.
What To Expect Before a Lung Ventilation/Perfusion Scan?
A lung ventilation/perfusion VQ scan may be done during an emergency to help diagnose or rule out a pulmonary embolism PE.
A PE is a sudden blockage in a lung artery.
This serious condition can cause low blood oxygen levels, damage to the lungs, or even death.
What is Lactose *?
Lactose * is a sugar found in milk and milk products.
What Is Lactose Intolerance?
Lactose intolerance is a common problem.
It happens when your body does not have enough lactase, which is an enzyme produced in the small intestine.
Lactase is necessary to digest lactose - the natural sugar found in milk and other dairy products.
In the intestines, undigested lactose leads to the buildup of gas.
Within 30 minutes to 2 hours after eating dairy products containing lactose, people with lactose intolerance start to develop stomach cramps and diarrhea.
These two symptoms must be present for a person to be diagnosed with lactose intolerance.
What is Adulthood?
Adulthood is a time when we need to look carefully at our bone health.
Where is Bone marrow found?
Bone marrow is found in the center of most bones and has many blood vessels.
How Do You Know if You Have Osteoarthritis?
Although osteoarthritis can occur in any joint, most often it affects the hands, knees, hips, and spine either at the neck or lower back.
Different characteristics of the disease can depend on the specific joints affected.
For general warning signs of osteoarthritis, see the information box 'The Warning Signs of Osteoarthritis.' For information on the joints most often affected by osteoarthritis, see the following descriptions:
What is Tremor?
Essential tremor sometimes called benign essential tremor is the most common form of abnormal tremor.The hands are most often affected but the head, voice, tongue, legs, and trunk may also be involved.
Head tremor may be seen as a yes-yes or no-no motion.
Onset is most common after age 40, although symptoms can appear at any age.
Parkinsonian tremor is caused by damage to structures within the brain that control movement.
The tremor is classically seen as a pill-rolling action of the hands but may also affect the chin, lips, legs, and trunk.
Dystonic tremor occurs in individuals of all ages who are affected by dystonia, a movement disorder in which sustained involuntary muscle contractions cause twisting motions or painful postures or positions.
What should you expect during a Tracheostomy?
The surgeon will place a tube called a trach tube through the hole and into the windpipe.
The tube will help keep the hole open.
Some trach tubes are 'cuffed.' Doctors can widen or narrow cuffed tubes by inflating or deflating them with air.
Can I determine if my child or teen is obese by using an adult BMI calculator?
No.
The adult calculator provides only the BMI number and not the BMI age- and sex-specific percentile that is used to interpret BMI and determine the weight category for children and teens.
It is not appropriate to use the BMI categories for adults to interpret BMI numbers for children and teens.
What do I need to know about Cirrhosis - National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse?
is scarring of the liver.
Scar tissue forms because of injury or long-term disease.
Scar tissue replaces healthy liver tissue and blocks the normal flow of blood through the liver.
A healthy liver.
What is Sickle cell anemia?
Sickle cell anemia is an inherited, lifelong disease.
What is Breast cancer?
Breast cancer is the most frequent type of cancer among women and the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths among women.
What is Folic acid?
Folic acid is a B vitamin that helps build healthy red blood cells.
What is a stroke?
A stroke occurs when blood flow is cut off from part of the brain.
In the same way that a person suffering a loss of blood to the heart can be said to be having a heart attack, a person with a loss of blood to the brain can be said to be having a brain attack.
There are two kinds of stroke, hemorrhagic and ischemic.
Hemorrhagic strokes are caused by bleeding within the brain.
Ischemic strokes, which are far more common, are caused by a blockage of blood flow in an artery in the head or neck leading to the brain.
Some ischemic strokes are due to stenosis, or narrowing of arteries due to the build up of plaque, fatty deposits and blood clots along the artery wall.
A vascular disease that can cause stenosis is atherosclerosis, in which deposits of plaque build-up along the inner wall of large and medium-sized arteries, decreasing blood flow.
Atherosclerosis in the carotid arteries, two large arteries in the neck that carry blood to the brain, is a major risk factor for ischemic stroke.
What is the digestive system?
The digestive system is made up of the gastrointestinal GI tract - also called the digestive tract - and the liver, pancreas, and gallbladder.
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
The hollow organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine - which includes the colon and rectum - and anus.
Food enters the mouth and passes to the anus through the hollow organs of the GI tract.
The liver, pancreas, and gallbladder are the solid organs of the digestive system.
The digestive system helps the body digest food, which includes breaking food down into nutrients the body needs.
Nutrients are substances the body uses for energy, growth, and cell repair.
What is Physical activity?
Physical activity is an important part of a heart healthy lifestyle.
Is Fluzone High-Dose safe?
The safety profile of Fluzone High-Dose vaccine is similar to that of regular flu vaccines, although some adverse events which are also reported after regular flu vaccines were reported more frequently after vaccination with Fluzone High-Dose.
The most common adverse events experienced during clinical studies were mild and temporary, and included pain, redness and swelling at the injection site, headache, muscle aches, fever and malaise.
Most people had minimal or no adverse events after receiving the Fluzone High-Dose vaccine.
Who Is at Risk for Pulmonary Hypertension?
Group 1 pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH without a known cause is rare.
Experts think that there are about 15 cases per 1 million adults.
Similar estimates have not been made for the other PH groups.
Group 1 PAH affects women more often than men.
People who have group 1 PAH tend to be overweight.
Who Needs Catheter Ablation?
You have faulty electrical activity in your heart that raises your risk of ventricular fibrillation v-fib and sudden cardiac arrest SCA.
V-fib is a life-threatening arrhythmia.
SCA is a condition in which your heart suddenly stops beating.
What Kinds of Rehabilitation Should a TBI Patient Receive?
In 1998, the NIH held a Consensus Development Conference on Rehabilitation of Persons with Traumatic Brain Injury.
The Consensus Development Panel recommended that TBI patients receive an individualized rehabilitation program based upon the patient's strengths and capacities and that rehabilitation services should be modified over time to adapt to the patient's changing needs.* The panel also recommended that moderately to severely injured patients receive rehabilitation treatment that draws on the skills of many specialists.
This involves individually tailored treatment programs in the areas of physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech/language therapy, physiatry physical medicine, psychology/psychiatry, and social support.
Medical personnel who provide this care include rehabilitation specialists, such as rehabilitation nurses, psychologists, speech/language pathologists, physical and occupational therapists, physiatrists physical medicine specialists, social workers, and a team coordinator or administrator.
What is Hemiplegic migraine?
Hemiplegic migraine is a rare but severe form of migraine that causes temporary paralysis-sometimes lasting several days-on one side of the body prior to or during a headache.
Is there any treatment for Guillain-Barre Syndrome?
There is no known cure for Guillain-Barre syndrome, but therapies can lessen the severity of the illness and accelerate the recovery in most patients.
There are also a number of ways to treat the complications of the disease.
Currently, plasmapheresis also known as plasma exchange and high-dose immunoglobulin therapy are used.
Plasmapheresis seems to reduce the severity and duration of the Guillain-Barre episode.
In high-dose immunoglobulin therapy, doctors give intravenous injections of the proteins that in small quantities, the immune system uses naturally to attack invading organism.
Investigators have found that giving high doses of these immunoglobulins, derived from a pool of thousands of normal donors, to Guillain-Barre patients can lessen the immune attack on the nervous system.
The most critical part of the treatment for this syndrome consists of keeping the patient's body functioning during recovery of the nervous system.
This can sometimes require placing the patient on a ventilator, a heart monitor, or other machines that assist body function.
What is Pulmonary embolism PE?
Pulmonary embolism PE is a sudden blockage in a lung artery.
What Causes Diabetic Heart Disease?
At least four complex processes, alone or combined, can lead to diabetic heart disease DHD.
They include coronary atherosclerosis; metabolic syndrome; insulin resistance in people who have type 2 diabetes; and the interaction of coronary heart disease CHD, high blood pressure, and diabetes.
What is Upper GI endoscopy?
Upper GI endoscopy is a procedure that uses a lighted, flexible endoscope to see and perform procedures inside the upper GI tract.
What is Parkinson's disease?
Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurological disorder that results from degeneration of neurons in a region of the brain that controls movement.
What is the prognosis for Krabbe Disease?
Infantile Krabbe disease is generally fatal before age 2.
Prognosis may be significantly better for children who receive umbilical cord blood stem cells prior to disease onset or early bone marrow transplantation.
Persons with juvenile- or adult-onset cases of Krabbe disease generally have a milder course of the disease and live significantly longer.
What research is being done for Alternating Hemiplegia?
The NINDS supports research on paralytic disorders such as alternating hemiplegia, with the goals of learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat and, ultimately cure them.
What are some of the physical changes my teen will go through?
Every child starts going through puberty at a different age.
Many girls finish puberty by age 15.
For boys, puberty may continue until age 17 or older.
How do you get giardiasis and how is it spread?
Anything that comes into contact with feces poop from infected humans or animals can become contaminated with the Giardia parasite.
People become infected when they swallow the parasite.
It is not possible to become infected through contact with blood.
What is National DNA Day?
National DNA Day is a special day when teachers, students, and the public can learn more about genetics and genomics.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Atherosclerosis?
Atherosclerosis usually doesn't cause signs and symptoms until it severely narrows or totally blocks an artery.
Many people don't know they have the disease until they have a medical emergency, such as a heart attack or stroke.
What are Swallowing Disorders?
Having trouble swallowing dysphagia is a symptom that accompanies a number of neurological disorders.
The problem can occur at any stage of the normal swallowing process as food and liquid move from the mouth, down the back of the throat, through the esophagus and into the stomach.
Difficulties can range from a total inability to swallow, to coughing or choking because the food or liquid is entering the windpipe, which is referred to as aspiration.
When aspiration is frequent a person can be at risk of developing pneumonia.
Food may get stuck in the throat or individuals may drool because they cannot swallow their saliva.
Neurological conditions that can cause swallowing difficulties are: stroke the most common cause of dysphagia; traumatic brain injury; cerebral palsy; Parkinson disease and other degenerative neurological disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, multiple sclerosis, progressive supranuclear palsy, Huntington disease, and myasthenia gravis.
Muscular dystrophy and myotonic dystrophy are accompanied by dysphagia, which is also the cardinal symptom of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy, a rare, progressive genetic disorder.
How does a person prepare for a colonoscopy?
Cleanse the bowel.
The gastroenterologist will give written bowel prep instructions to follow at home.
A gastroenterologist orders a bowel prep so that little to no stool is present inside the person's intestine.
A complete bowel prep lets the person pass stool that is clear.
Stool inside the colon can prevent the gastroenterologist from clearly seeing the lining of the intestine.
Instructions may include following a clear liquid diet for 1 to 3 days before the procedure and avoiding drinks that contain red or purple dye.
The instructions will provide specific direction about when to start and stop the clear liquid diet.
People may drink or eat the following: fat-free bouillon or broth.
What can a person expect after a lower gastrointestinal series?
A person should carefully read and follow the discharge instructions, which will explain how to flush the remaining barium from the intestine.
The radiologist will interpret the images and send a report of the findings to the person's health care provider.
What Causes Varicose Veins?
Weak vein walls may cause weak valves.
Normally, the walls of the veins are elastic stretchy.
If these walls become weak, they lose their normal elasticity.
They become like an overstretched rubber band.
This makes the walls of the veins longer and wider, and it causes the flaps of the valves to separate.
Where Can I Go to Get Screened?
Mammograms are performed at clinics, hospitals, and doctor's offices.
For help scheduling an appointment, call your doctors' office.
Is TS inherited?
Evidence from twin and family studies suggests that TS is an inherited disorder.
Although early family studies suggested an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance an autosomal dominant disorder is one in which only one copy of the defective gene, inherited from one parent, is necessary to produce the disorder, more recent studies suggest that the pattern of inheritance is much more complex.
Although there may be a few genes with substantial effects, it is also possible that many genes with smaller effects and environmental factors may play a role in the development of TS.
What research is being done for Megalencephaly?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to megalencephaly in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research explores the complex mechanisms of normal brain development.
The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies will provide a foundation for developing ways to prevent megalencephaly and the other cephalic disorders.
Can Scientists Predict or Prevent Parkinson's Disease?
In most cases, there is no way to predict or prevent sporadic PD.
However, researchers are looking for a biomarker - a biological abnormality that all people with PD might share - that could be picked up by screening techniques or by a simple chemical test given to people who do not have any parkinsonian symptoms.
This could help doctors identify people at risk of the disease.
It also might allow them to find treatments that will stop the disease process in the early stages.
What research is being done for Frontotemporal Dementia?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH, conduct research related to FTD in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
What is the prognosis for Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's Disease?
Although most individuals still need to take medication after undergoing DBS, many people with Parkinson's disease experience considerable reduction of their motor symptoms and are able to reduce their medications.
The amount of reduction varies but can be considerably reduced in most individuals, and can lead to a significant improvement in side effects such as dyskinesias involuntary movements caused by long-term use of levodopa.
In some cases, the stimulation itself can suppress dyskinesias without a reduction in medication.
DBS does not improve cognitive symptoms in PD and indeed may worsen them, so it is not generally used if there are signs of dementia.
DBS changes the brain firing pattern but does not slow the progression of the neurodegeneration.
What is Wilson Disease?
Wilson disease WD is a rare inherited disorder of copper metabolism in which excessive amounts of copper accumulate in the body.
The buildup of copper leads to damage in the liver, brain, and eyes.
Although copper accumulation begins at birth, symptoms of the disorder only appear later in life.
The most characteristic sign of WD is the Kayser-Fleisher ring - a rusty brown ring around the cornea of the eye that can best be viewed using an ophthalmologist's slit lamp.
The primary consequence for most individuals with WD is liver disease, appearing in late childhood or early adolescence as acute hepatitis, liver failure, or progressive chronic liver disease in the form of chronic active hepatitis or cirrhosis of the liver.
In others, the first symptoms are neurological, occur later in adulthood, and commonly include slurred speech dysarthria, difficulty swallowing dysphagia, and drooling.
Other symptoms may include tremor of the head, arms, or legs; impaired muscle tone, and sustained muscle contractions that produce abnormal postures, twisting, and repetitive movements dystonia; and slowness of movements bradykinesia.
Individuals may also experience clumsiness ataxia and loss of fine motor skills.
One-third of individuals with WD will also experience psychiatric symptoms such as an abrupt personality change, bizarre and inappropriate behavior, depression accompanied by suicidal thoughts, neurosis, or psychosis.
WD is diagnosed with tests that measure the amount of copper in the blood, urine, and liver.
What Research is Being Done?
Biological therapy involves enhancing the body's overall immune response to recognize and fight cancer cells.
The immune system is designed to attack foreign substances in the body; since cancer cells aren't foreign, they usually do not generate much of an immune response.
Researchers are using different methods to provoke a strong immune response to tumor cells.
Such proteins as interleukin and interferon, both of which are immune system 'messengers' called cytokines, and other substances can stimulate and restore the body's natural response against proteins on the surfaces of cancer cells and thus slow tumor growth.
Other therapy uses viruses, T-cells a major component of immune system function, and other substances to increase immune response and target the tumor cells.
Scientists are also experimenting with genetically altered T-cells from the patient's own body, which are cultured with an antigen and injected directly into the brain following surgery.
Biological therapies to fight CNS tumors include vaccines, gene therapy, antibody therapy, and tumor growth factors.
How is transverse myelitis treated?
As with many disorders of the spinal cord, no effective cure currently exists for people with transverse myelitis.
Treatments are designed to reduce spinal cord inflammation and manage and alleviate symptoms.
Physicians often prescribe anti-inflammatory corticosteroid therapy soon after the diagnosis is made in order to decrease inflammation and hopefully improve the chances and speed of neurological recovery.
Although no clinical trials have investigated whether corticosteroids alter the course of transverse myelitis, these drugs often are prescribed to reduce immune system activity because of the suspected autoimmune mechanisms involved in the disorder.
Corticosteroid medications that might be prescribed may include intravenous methylprednisone or dexamethasone usually for about 5 days; in some cases, oral prednisone is used for a period of time afterwards.
In severe cases that do not appear to respond to corticosteroid treatment, other therapies such as plasma exchange or drug therapies may be used to try to salvage neurological function.
General painkillers may be prescribed for any pain the patient may have.
And bed rest is often recommended during the initial days and weeks after onset of the disorder.
Who Is at Risk for Asbestos-Related Lung Diseases?
Asbestos was used in or with many products.
Examples include steam pipes, boilers, furnaces, and furnace ducts; wallboard; floor and ceiling tiles; wood-burning stoves and gas fireplaces; car brakes, clutches, and gaskets; railroad engines; roofing and shingles; and wall-patching materials and paints.
Who Is at Risk for Cystic Fibrosis?
Cystic fibrosis CF affects both males and females and people from all racial and ethnic groups.
However, the disease is most common among Caucasians of Northern European descent.
What is the prognosis for Frontotemporal Dementia?
The outcome for people with FTD is poor.
The disease progresses steadily and often rapidly, ranging from less than 2 years in some individuals to more than 10 years in others.
Eventually some individuals with FTD will need 24-hour care and monitoring at home or in an institutionalized care setting.
What is Infective endocarditis IE?
Infective endocarditis IE is an uncommon condition that can affect both children and adults.
How Is Atherosclerosis Treated?
Treatments for atherosclerosis may include lifestyle changes, medicines, and medical procedures or surgery.
How Is Lymphocytopenia Treated?
If you have a disease or condition that's causing lymphocytopenia, your doctor will prescribe treatment for that illness.
Treating the underlying problem will help treat the lymphocytopenia.
What is Acute diarrhea?
Acute diarrhea is a common problem.
Is thimerosal in vaccines linked to autism?
Numerous studies have found no association between thimerosal exposure and autism.
CDC places a high priority on vaccine safety, surveillance, and research.
CDC is aware that the presence of the preservative thimerosal in vaccines and allegations of a relationship to autism have raised public concerns.
These concerns have made decisions surrounding vaccinations confusing and difficult for some people.
Since 2001, no new vaccine licensed by FDA for use in children has contained thimerosal as a preservative and all vaccines routinely recommended by CDC for children younger than 6 years of age have been thimerosal-free, or contain only trace amounts of thimerosal, except for some formulations of influenza vaccine.
Unfortunately, reductions in the numbers of children identified with autism have not been observed indicating that the cause of autism is not related to a single exposure such as thimerosal.
Is there any treatment for Sturge-Weber Syndrome?
Treatment for Sturge-Weber syndrome is symptomatic.
Laser treatment may be used to lighten or remove the birthmark.
Anticonvulsant medications may be used to control seizures.
Persons with drug-resistant seizures may be treated by surgical removal of epileptic brain tissue.
Surgery may be performed on more serious cases of glaucoma.
Physical therapy should be considered for infants and children with muscle weakness.
Educational therapy is often prescribed for those with mental retardation or developmental delays.
Doctors recommend yearly monitoring for glaucoma.
What research is being done for Transverse Myelitis?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to transverse myelitis in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH, and also supports additional transverse myelitis research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Some studies focus on strategies to repair the spinal cord, including approaches using cell transplantation.
The NINDS also funds researchers who are using animal models of spinal cord injury to study strategies for replacement or regeneration of spinal cord nerve cells.
The knowledge gained from such research should lead to a greater knowledge of the mechanisms responsible for transverse myelitis and may ultimately provide a means to prevent and treat this disorder.
What is Gaucher disease?
Gaucher disease is the most common of the inherited metabolic disorder known as lipid storage diseases.
Can head lice be spread by sharing sports helmets or headphones?
Head lice are spread most commonly by direct contact with the hair of an infested person.
Spread by contact with inanimate objects and personal belongings may occur but is very uncommon.
Head lice feet are specially adapted for holding onto human hair.
Head lice would have difficulty attaching firmly to smooth or slippery surfaces like plastic, metal, polished synthetic leathers, and other similar materials.
How Is Carotid Artery Disease Treated?
Treatments for carotid artery disease may include lifestyle changes, medicines, and medical procedures.
The goals of treatment are to stop the disease from getting worse and to prevent a stroke.
What happens to the digested food molecules?
The small intestine absorbs most digested food molecules, as well as water and minerals, and passes them on to other parts of the body for storage or further chemical change.
Specialized cells help absorbed materials cross the intestinal lining into the bloodstream.
The bloodstream carries simple sugars, amino acids, glycerol, and some vitamins and salts to the liver.
The lymphatic system, a network of vessels that carry white blood cells and a fluid called lymph throughout the body, absorbs fatty acids and vitamins.
What if my child is older?
It's never too late to start the conversation about avoiding drugs.
Even if your teen may have tried tobacco, alcohol, or drugs, you can still talk about making healthy choices and how to say 'no' next time.
How Can Pneumonia Be Prevented?
Pneumonia can be very serious and even life threatening.
When possible, take steps to prevent the infection, especially if you're in a high-risk group.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a disease that makes bones fragile and more likely to break.
There are no symptoms to warn you.
The first sign is usually a fracture that occurs after your bones have already become fragile.
Fractures occur most often in the hip, spine, and wrist.
Spinal fractures cause stooped posture, loss of height, and chronic back pain.
Hip fractures, the most serious consequence of osteoporosis, can result in permanent disability and even death.
What should you expect during Cardiac CT?
The table will slide slowly into the opening in the machine.
Inside the scanner, an x-ray tube moves around your body to take pictures of different parts of your heart.
A computer will put the pictures together to make a three-dimensional 3D picture of the whole heart.
Is there any treatment for Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome Disorder?
Depending upon the severity of symptoms, children may require chest physiotherapy and treatment for respiratory complications.
To ensure adequate nutrition and caloric intake, some infants may require special accommodations for diet and feeding.
Seizures may be managed with standard anticonvulsant medications.
Children should be monitored for evidence of glaucoma in the first few months of life, and later for evidence of scoliosis, diabetes, and underactive thyroid.The prognosis depends upon the severity of symptoms.
What should you expect after Transesophageal Echocardiography?
After having transesophageal echocardiography TEE, your or your child's blood pressure, blood oxygen level, and other vital signs will continue to be closely watched.
You can likely go home a few hours after having the test.
What is The CT scanner?
The CT scanner is a large machine that has a hollow, circular tube in the middle.
What research is being done for Corticobasal Degeneration?
The NINDS supports and conducts research studies on degenerative disorders such as corticobasal degeneration.
The goals of these studies are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
How Is Heart Valve Disease Diagnosed?
Your primary care doctor may detect a heart murmur or other signs of heart valve disease.
However, a cardiologist usually will diagnose the condition.
A cardiologist is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating heart problems.
What is the prognosis for Stroke?
Although stroke is a disease of the brain, it can affect the entire body.
A common disability that results from stroke is complete paralysis on one side of the body, called hemiplegia.
A related disability that is not as debilitating as paralysis is one-sided weakness or hemiparesis.
Stroke may cause problems with thinking, awareness, attention, learning, judgment, and memory.
Stroke survivors often have problems understanding or forming speech.
A stroke can lead to emotional problems.
Stroke patients may have difficulty controlling their emotions or may express inappropriate emotions.
Many stroke patients experience depression.
Stroke survivors may also have numbness or strange sensations.
The pain is often worse in the hands and feet and is made worse by movement and temperature changes, especially cold temperatures.
Do I need any shots or medicines to prevent diseases?
Shots can protect you from diseases like hepatitis A.
You can get hepatitis A from contaminated unsafe food or water.
It's common in many countries, including those in Central and South America.
Is there any treatment for Krabbe Disease?
There is no cure for Krabbe disease.
Results of a very small clinical trial of patients with infantile Krabbe disease found that children who received umbilical cord blood stem cells from unrelated donors prior to symptom onset developed with little neurological impairment.
Results also showed that disease progression stabilized faster in patients who receive cord blood compared to those who receive adult bone marrow.
Bone marrow transplantation has been shown to benefit mild cases early in the course of the disease.
Generally, treatment for the disorder is symptomatic and supportive.
Physical therapy may help maintain or increase muscle tone and circulation.
What is Heart failure?
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart is damaged or weak.
Is there any treatment for Myoclonus?
Treatment of myoclonus focuses on medications that may help reduce symptoms.
The drug of first choice is clonazepam, a type of tranquilizer.
Many of the drugs used for myoclonus, such as barbiturates, phenytoin, and primidone, are also used to treat epilepsy.
Sodium valproate is an alternative therapy for myoclonus and can be used either alone or in combination with clonazepam.
Myoclonus may require the use of multiple drugs for effective treatment.
What Are the Risk Factors for Osteoporosis?
estrogen deficiency resulting from early menopause before age 45, either naturally, from surgical removal of the ovaries, or as a result of prolonged amenorrhea abnormal absence of menstruation in younger women.
What is Elder abuse?
Elder abuse is a significant public health problem.
What should you expect after Pacemaker Surgery?
Expect to stay in the hospital overnight so your health care team can check your heartbeat and make sure your pacemaker is working well.
You'll likely have to arrange for a ride to and from the hospital because your doctor may not want you to drive yourself.
How Does a Person Decide Whether to be Tested?
Some individuals choose to undergo the test out of a desire for greater certainty about their genetic status.
They believe the test will enable them to make more informed decisions about the future.
Others choose not to take the test.
They are able to make peace with the uncertainty of being at risk, preferring to forego the emotional consequences of a positive result, as well as possible losses of insurance and employment.
There is no right or wrong decision, as each choice is highly individual.
The guidelines for genetic testing for HD, discussed in the previous section, were developed to help people with this life-changing choice.
What do I ask the doctor?
Visiting the doctor can be stressful.
It helps to have questions written down before your appointment.
Print these questions, and take them with you the next time you visit the doctor.
You may want to take a family member or close friend along to help take notes.
What is mental illness?
The term mental illness refers collectively to all diagnosable mental disorders.
Effects of the illness include sustained abnormal alterations in thinking, mood, or behavior associated with distress and impaired functioning.
The effects of mental illnesses include disruptions of daily function; incapacitating personal, social, and occupational impairment; and premature death.
The most common mental illnesses in adults are anxiety and mood disorders.
How are the inflammatory myopathies diagnosed?
Diagnosis is based on the individual's medical history, results of a physical exam and tests of muscle strength, and blood samples that show elevated levels of various muscle enzymes and autoantibodies.
Diagnostic tools include electromyography to record the electrical activity that controls muscles during contraction and at rest, ultrasound to look for muscle inflammation, and magnetic resonance imaging to reveal abnormal muscle and evaluate muscle disease.
A muscle biopsy can be examined by microscopy for signs of chronic inflammation, muscle fiber death, vascular deformities, or the changes specific to the diagnosis of IBM.
A skin biopsy can show changes in the skin layer in patients with dermatomyositis.
What is Balamuthia mandrillaris?
Balamuthia mandrillaris is a free-living ameba a single-celled organism found in soil and dust.
How is the cause of diarrhea diagnosed?
If you have chronic diarrhea, your health care provider may perform other tests to look for signs of disease.
What is constipation?
Bowel habits aren't the same for all people.
Some people think they have constipation if they don't have a bowel movement every day.
Some people may have three bowel movements a day.
Other people may only have three bowel movements a week.
Who Needs Pulmonary Rehabilitation?
COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
COPD includes emphysema em-fi-SE-ma and chronic bronchitis bron-KI-tis.
The symptoms of COPD include coughing either a dry cough or a cough that expels phlegm or mucus from your airways, wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and other symptoms.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Iron-Deficiency Anemia?
When signs and symptoms do occur, they can range from mild to severe.
Many of the signs and symptoms of iron-deficiency anemia apply to all types of anemia.
How Do I Stop Pink Eye from Spreading?
Viral and bacterial pink eye are very contagious and can spread easily and quickly from person to person.
You can reduce the risk of getting or spreading pink eye by following some simple self-care steps, like washing your hands and not touching your eyes.
See conjunctivitis prevention.
Pink eye that is caused by allergens or irritants is not contagious, but it is possible to develop a secondary infection by other viruses or bacteria.
What research is being done for Peripheral?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, a component of the Federal government's National Institutes of Health NIH within the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, has primary responsibility for research on peripheral neuropathy.
Current research projects funded by the NINDS involve investigations of genetic factors associated with hereditary neuropathies, studies of biological mechanisms involved in diabetes-associated neuropathies, efforts to gain greater understanding of how the immune system contributes to peripheral nerve damage, and efforts to develop new therapies for neuropathic symptoms.
Where can Cholesterol be located?
Cholesterol is found in foods that come from animal sources, such as egg yolks, meat, and cheese.
What are Preventing falls?
Preventing falls is a special concern for men and women with osteoporosis.
What Disabilities Can Result From a TBI?
Most TBI patients have emotional or behavioral problems that fit under the broad category of psychiatric health.
Family members of TBI patients often find that personality changes and behavioral problems are the most difficult disabilities to handle.
Psychiatric problems that may surface include depression, apathy, anxiety, irritability, anger, paranoia, confusion, frustration, agitation, insomnia or other sleep problems, and mood swings.
Problem behaviors may include aggression and violence, impulsivity, disinhibition, acting out, noncompliance, social inappropriateness, emotional outbursts, childish behavior, impaired self-control, impaired self awareness, inability to take responsibility or accept criticism, egocentrism, inappropriate sexual activity, and alcohol or drug abuse/addiction.
Some patients' personality problems may be so severe that they are diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, a psychiatric condition characterized by many of the problems mentioned above.
Sometimes TBI patients suffer from developmental stagnation, meaning that they fail to mature emotionally, socially, or psychologically after the trauma.
This is a serious problem for children and young adults who suffer from a TBI.
Attitudes and behaviors that are appropriate for a child or teenager become inappropriate in adulthood.
Many TBI patients who show psychiatric or behavioral problems can be helped with medication and psychotherapy.
How Is a Stroke Diagnosed?
Your doctor will want to find out the type of stroke you've had, its cause, the part of the brain that's affected, and whether you have bleeding in the brain.
Is there any treatment for Metachromatic Leukodystrophy?
There is no cure for MLD.
Bone marrow transplantation may delay progression of the disease in some infantile-onsetcases.
Other treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
Considerable progress has been made with regard to gene therapy in an animal model of MLD.
What is Fibromuscular dysplasia FMD?
Fibromuscular dysplasia FMD is the abnormal development or growth of cells in the walls of arteries that can cause the vessels to narrow or bulge.
What Can I Do to Avoid a Crash?
Following these tips is the best way you can keep from getting in a motor vehicle crash and ensure a safe and healthy vacation.
But don't forget your travel vaccines, either!.
What Does a Diagnosis of High Blood Pressure Mean?
Once your blood pressure is under control, you'll still need treatment.
Under control means that your blood pressure numbers are in the normal range.
Your doctor will likely recommend routine blood pressure tests.
He or she can tell you how often you should be tested.
What does You Should Know?
A poison is any substance, including medications, that is harmful to your body if too much is eaten, inhaled, injected, or absorbed through the skin.
How common are hemorrhoids?
About 75 percent of people will have hemorrhoids at some point in their lives.
Hemorrhoids are most common among adults ages 45 to 65.
Hemorrhoids are also common in pregnant women.
What is Sturge-Weber Syndrome?
Sturge-Weber syndrome is a neurological disorder indicated at birth by a port-wine stain birthmark on the forehead and upper eyelid of one side of the face.
The birthmark can vary in color from light pink to deep purple and is caused by an overabundance of capillaries around the trigeminal nerve just beneath the surface of the face.
Sturge-Weber syndrome is also accompanied by abnormal blood vessels on the brain surface and the loss of nerve cells and calcification of underlying tissue in the cerebral cortex of the brain on the same side of the brain as the birthmark.
Neurological symptoms include seizures that begin in infancy and may worsen with age.
Convulsions usually happen on the side of the body opposite the birthmark and vary in severity.
There may be intermittent or permanent muscle weakness on the same side.
Some children will have developmental delays and mental retardation; most will have glaucoma increased pressure within the eye at birth or developing later.
The increased pressure within the eye can cause the eyeball to enlarge and bulge out of its socket buphthalmos.
There is an increased risk for migraine headaches.
Sturge-Weber syndrome rarely affects other body organs.
Where can Most of the sodium we consume be found?
Most of the sodium we consume is in the form of salt.
What is Hemolytic anemia caused by?
Hemolytic anemia is caused by high rates of red blood cell destruction.
What is the prognosis for Dandy-Walker Syndrome?
The effect of Dandy-Walker Syndrome on intellectual development is variable, with some children having normal cognition and others never achieving normal intellectual development even when the excess fluid buildup is treated early and correctly.
Longevity depends on the severity of the syndrome and associated malformations.
The presence of multiple congenital defects may shorten life span.
Is there any treatment for Hydromyelia?
Generally, physicians recommend surgery for children with hydromyelia if they have moderate or severe neurological deficits.
Surgical treatment re-establishes the normal flow of spinal fluid.
What is Giardiasis?
Giardiasis is a diarrheal disease caused by the microscopic parasite Giardia.
Is there any treatment for Sleep Apnea?
There are a variety of treatments for sleep apnea, depending on an individual's medical history and the severity of the disorder.
Most treatment regimens begin with lifestyle changes, such as avoiding alcohol and medications that relax the central nervous system for example, sedatives and muscle relaxants, losing weight, and quitting smoking.
Some people are helped by special pillows or devices that keep them from sleeping on their backs, or oral appliances to keep the airway open during sleep.
If these conservative methods are inadequate, doctors often recommend continuous positive airway pressure CPAP, in which a face mask is attached to a tube and a machine that blows pressurized air into the mask and through the airway to keep it open.
Also available are machines that offer variable positive airway pressure VPAP and automatic positive airway pressure APAP.
There are also surgical procedures that can be used to remove tissue and widen the airway.
Some individuals may need a combination of therapies to successfully treat their sleep apnea.
What is Abdominal discomfort?
Abdominal discomfort is the most common symptom of both duodenal and gastric ulcers.
What research is being done for Von?
The NINDS pursues a vigorous program of research aimed at preventing and treating disorders that cause tumors in the brain and spinal cord such as VHL.
What is Paroxysmal Hemicrania?
Paroxysmal hemicrania is a rare form of headache that usually begins in adulthood.
Patients experience severe throbbing, claw-like, or boring pain usually on one side of the face; in, around, or behind the eye; and occasionally reaching to the back of the neck.
This pain may be accompanied by red and tearing eyes, a drooping or swollen eyelid on the affected side of the face, and nasal congestion.
Patients may also feel dull pain, soreness, or tenderness between attacks.
Attacks of paroxysmal hemicrania typically occur from 5 to 40 times per day and last 2 to 30 minutes.
The disorder has two forms: chronic, in which patients experience attacks on a daily basis for a year or more, and episodic, in which the headaches may remit for months or years.
Certain movements of the head or neck or external pressure to the neck may trigger these headaches in some patients.
The disorder is more common in women than in men.
Expecting trick-or-treaters or party guests?
Keep candle-lit jack o'lanterns and luminaries away from doorsteps, walkways, landings, and curtains.
Place them on sturdy tables, keep them out of the reach of pets and small children, and never leave them unattended.
What is An upper GI endoscopy?
An upper GI endoscopy is a procedure that uses an endoscope - a small, flexible tube with a light - to see the lining of the upper GI tract.
How Is an Aneurysm Diagnosed?
If you have an abdominal aortic aneurysm AAA, your doctor may feel a throbbing mass in your abdomen.
A rapidly growing aneurysm about to rupture burst can be tender and very painful when pressed.
If you're overweight or obese, it may be hard for your doctor to feel even a large AAA.
How are hemorrhoids diagnosed?
Colonoscopy.
A flexible, lighted tube called a colonoscope is inserted through the anus, the rectum, and the upper part of the large intestine, called the colon.
The colonoscope transmits images of the inside of the rectum and the entire colon.
What Causes Thalassemias?
Thalassemias are inherited disorders - that is, they're passed from parents to children through genes.
People who inherit faulty hemoglobin genes from one parent but normal genes from the other are called carriers.
Carriers often have no signs of illness other than mild anemia.
However, they can pass the faulty genes on to their children.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Anemia?
The most common symptom of anemia is fatigue feeling tired or weak.
If you have anemia, you may find it hard to find the energy to do normal activities.
What is Neonatal hemochromatosis?
Neonatal hemochromatosis is a rare disease characterized by liver failure and death in fetuses and newborns.
Who should be tested for hemochromatosis?
Some researchers have suggested widespread screening for the C282Y mutation in the general population.
However, screening is not cost-effective.
Although the C282Y mutation occurs quite frequently, the disease caused by the mutation is rare, and many people with two copies of the mutation never develop iron overload or organ damage.
What is Krabbe disease?
Krabbe disease is a rare, inherited degenerative disorder of the central and peripheral nervous systems.
What are the types of strokes?
A stroke can occur in two ways.
In an ischemic stroke, a blood clot blocks or plugs a blood vessel or artery in the brain.
About 80 percent of all strokes are ischemic.
In an hemorrhagic stroke, a blood vessel in the brain breaks and bleeds into the brain.
About 20 percent of strokes are hemorrhagic.
What is Myotonia Congenita?
Myotonia congenita is an inherited neuromuscular disorder characterized by the inability of muscles to quickly relax after a voluntary contraction.
The condition is present from early childhood, but symptoms can be mild.
Most children will be 2 or 3 years old when parents first notice their muscle stiffness, particularly in the legs, often provoked by sudden activity after rest.
The disease doesn't cause muscle wasting; in fact, it may cause muscle enlargement.
Muscle strength is increased.
There are two forms of the disorder: Becker-type, which is the most common form; and Thomsen's disease, which is a rare and milder form.
The disorder is cause by mutations in a gene responsible for shutting off electrical excitation in the muscles.
Is there any treatment for Postural Tachycardia Syndrome?
Therapies for POTS are targeted at relieving low blood volume or regulating circulatory problems that could be causing the disorder.
No single treatment has been found to be effect for all.
A number of drugs seem to be effective in the short term.
Whether they help in long term is uncertain.
Simple interventions such as adding extra salt to the diet and attention to adequate fluid intake are often effective.
The drugs fludrocortisone for those on a high salt diet and midodrine in low doses are often used to increase blood volume and narrow blood vessels.
Drinking 16 ounces of water 2 glassfuls before getting up can also help raise blood pressure.
Some individuals are helped by beta receptor blocking agents.
There is some evidence that an exercise program can gradually improve orthostatic tolerance.
How is Wilson disease diagnosed?
Health care providers typically see the same symptoms of Wilson disease in other conditions, and the symptoms of Wilson disease do not occur together often, making the disease difficult to diagnose.
What Research Is Being Conducted on Hip Replacement?
NIH Clinical Research Trials and You was designed to help people learn more about clinical trials, why they matter, and how to participate.
Visitors to the website will find information about the basics of participating in a clinical trial, first-hand stories from actual clinical trial volunteers, explanations from researchers, and links to how to search for a trial or enroll in a research-matching program.
Are other conditions associated with Chiari malformations?
Syringomyelia, or hydromyelia, is a disorder in which a CSF-filled tubular cyst, or syrinx, forms within the spinal cord's central canal.
The growing syrinx destroys the center of the spinal cord, resulting in pain, weakness, and stiffness in the back, shoulders, arms, or legs.
Other symptoms may include headaches and a loss of the ability to feel extremes of hot or cold, especially in the hands.
Some individuals also have severe arm and neck pain.
What is Cetuximab Cetuximab?
Cetuximab Cetuximab is a partially humanized monoclonal antibody against the epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR.
Is there any treatment for Pompe Disease?
Individuals with Pompe disease are best treated by a team of specialists such as cardiologist, neurologist, and respiratory therapist knowledgeable about the disease, who can offer supportive and symptomatic care.
The discovery of the GAA gene has led to rapid progress in understanding the biological mechanisms and properties of the GAA enzyme.
As a result, an enzyme replacement therapy has been developed that has shown, in clinical trials with infantile-onset patients, to decrease heart size, maintain normal heart function, improve muscle function, tone, and strength, and reduce glycogen accumulation.
A drug called alglucosidase alfa Myozyme, has received FDA approval for the treatment of infants and children with Pompe disease.
Another algluosidase alfa drug, Lumizyme, has been approved for late-onset non-infantile Pompe disease.
How are spinal cord injuries classified?
Once the swelling from within and around the spinal cord has eased a bit - usually within a week to 10 days - physicians will conduct a complete neurological exam to classify the injury as complete or incomplete.
An incomplete injury means that the ability of the spinal cord to convey messages to or from the brain is not completely lost.
People with incomplete injuries retain some sensory function and may have voluntary motor activity below the injury site.
A complete injury prevents nerve communications from the brain and spinal cord to parts of the body below the injury site.
There is a total lack of sensory and motor function below the level of injury, even if the spinal cord was not completely severed.
Studies have shown that people with incomplete injuries have a greater chance of recovering some function in the affected limbs than those with a complete injury.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Atelectasis?
If atelectasis affects a large area of lung, especially if it occurs suddenly, it may cause a low level of oxygen in your blood.
As a result, you may feel short of breath.
Your heart rate and breathing rate may increase, and your skin and lips may turn blue.
How Common Is Back Pain?
In a 3-month period, about one-fourth of U.S.
adults experience at least 1 day of back pain.
It is one of our society's most common medical problems.
Is there any treatment for Corticobasal Degeneration?
There is no treatment available to slow the course of corticobasal degeneration, and the symptoms of the disease are generally resistant to therapy.
Drugs used to treat Parkinson disease-type symptoms do not produce any significant or sustained improvement.
Clonazepam may help the myoclonus.
Occupational, physical, and speech therapy can help in managing disability.
How can I prevent cirrhosis if I already have liver disease?
see your doctor if you have hepatitis.
Treatments for hepatitis B, C, and D are available.
If you are on treatment, carefully follow your treatment directions.
Who Is Affected?
Fibrous dysplasia is an uncommon disorder.
It is usually diagnosed in children and young adults, and is present throughout life.
The likelihood of getting the disease does not appear to be influenced by gender, race, ethnic background, geographic location, or by any environmental exposures.
How Can Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura Be Prevented?
Some medicines, such as ticlopidine, clopidogrel, cyclosporine A, chemotherapy, and hormone therapy and estrogens.
If you take any of these medicines, your doctor may prescribe a different medicine.
My Daughter Is Constantly Dieting.
Should I Be Concerned?
You should discuss your concerns with your daughter's doctor.
If your daughter is one of up to 3 percent of American girls and young women with eating disorders, the problem is even more serious.
Eating disorders, especially anorexia nervosa, can lead to missed or irregular menstrual periods or the complete absence of periods, known as amenorrhea.
These are signs of low estrogen, a hormone that is essential for developing bone density and reaching peak bone mass.
Girls with anorexia nervosa will often have fractures as a first sign of the disease.
Furthermore, reduction in estrogen production in adolescence can increase your daughter's risk of osteoporosis and fracture later in life.
In severe cases, girls with eating disorders may even develop osteoporosis in their twenties, and they may find the damage to their bones cannot be reversed later in life.
What are the symptoms of UC?
Most people diagnosed with UC have mild to moderate symptoms.
About 10 percent have severe symptoms such as frequent fevers, bloody diarrhea, nausea, and severe abdominal cramps.
UC can also cause problems such as joint pain, eye irritation, kidney stones, liver disease, and osteoporosis.
Scientists do not know why these problems occur, but they think these complications may be the result of inflammation triggered by the immune system.
Some of these problems go away when UC is treated.
What is Gerstmann's Syndrome?
There are few reports of the syndrome, sometimes called developmental Gerstmann's syndrome, in children.
The cause is not known.
Most cases are identified when children reach school age, a time when they are challenged with writing and math exercises.
Generally, children with the disorder exhibit poor handwriting and spelling skills, and difficulty with math functions, including adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing.
An inability to differentiate right from left and to discriminate among individual fingers may also be apparent.
In addition to the four primary symptoms, many children also suffer from constructional apraxia, an inability to copy simple drawings.
Frequently, there is also an impairment in reading.
Children with a high level of intellectual functioning as well as those with brain damage may be affected with the disorder.
Are There Special Issues for African American Women Regarding Bone Health?
As many as 75 percent of all African Americans are lactose intolerant.
Lactose intolerance can hinder optimal calcium intake.
People with lactose intolerance often may avoid milk and other dairy products that are excellent sources of calcium because they have trouble digesting lactose, the primary sugar in milk.
What Are the Health Risks of Overweight and Obesity?
Did you know that nearly 9 out of 10 people with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes are overweight? If you are overweight, losing some weight could help you better manage your diabetes.
Some of my friends take medication for osteoporosis.
Should I consider this?
Yes.
Several medications are available to prevent and treat osteoporosis, including: bisphosphonates; estrogen agonists/antagonists also called selective estrogen receptor modulators or SERMS; parathyroid hormone; estrogen therapy; hormone therapy; and a recently approved RANK ligand RANKL inhibitor.
Your doctor can help you understand the benefits and risks of each of these medications and select one that is right for you.
What is A skin biopsy?
A skin biopsy is the first step in diagnosing DH.
How Is Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency Diagnosed?
Your doctor may suspect AAT deficiency if you have signs or symptoms of a serious lung condition, especially emphysema, without any obvious cause.
He or she also may suspect AAT deficiency if you develop emphysema when you're 45 years old or younger.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Deep Vein Thrombosis?
The signs and symptoms of deep vein thrombosis DVT might be related to DVT itself or pulmonary embolism PE.
See your doctor right away if you have signs or symptoms of either condition.
Both DVT and PE can cause serious, possibly life-threatening problems if not treated.
What is An aortogram?
An aortogram is an angiogram of the aorta.
What is Paroxysmal Choreoathetosis?
Paroxysmal choreoathetosis is a movement disorder characterized by episodes or attacks of involuntary movements of the limbs, trunk, and facial muscles.
The disorder may occur in several members of a family, or in only a single family member.
Prior to an attack some individuals experience tightening of muscles or other physical symptoms.
Involuntary movements precipitate some attacks, and other attacks occur when the individual has consumed alcohol or caffeine, or is tired or stressed.
Attacks can last from 10 seconds to over an hour.
Some individuals have lingering muscle tightness after an attack.
Paroxysmal choreoathetosis frequently begins in early adolescence.
A gene associated with the disorder has been discovered.
The same gene is also associated with epilepsy.
What research is being done for Holoprosencephaly?
The NINDS supports and conducts a wide range of studies that focus on identifying and learning more about the factors involved in normal brain development.
Recent research has identified specific genes that cause holoprosencephaly.
The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how to develop new ways to treat, and potentially prevent, this disorder.
How are meningitis and encephalitis diagnosed?
Analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid that surrounds and protects the brain and spinal cord can detect infections in the brain and/or spinal cord, acute and chronic inflammation, and other diseases.
In a procedure known as a spinal tap or lumbar puncture, a small amount of cerebrospinal fluid is removed by a special needle that is inserted into the lower back.
The skin is anesthetized with a local anesthetic prior to the sampling.
The fluid, which is completely clear in healthy people, is tested to detect the presence of bacteria or blood, as well as to measure glucose levels a low glucose level can be seen in bacterial or fungal meningitis and white blood cells elevated white blood cell counts are also a sign of infection.
The procedure is done in a hospital and takes about 45 minutes.The individual will most often be placed on antibiotics and an antiviral drug while awaiting the final microbiology results as delay in treatment can be life-threatening.
What is Parry-Romberg?
Parry-Romberg syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by slowly progressive deterioration atrophy of the skin and soft tissues of half of the face hemifacial atrophy, usually the left side.
It is more common in females than in males.
Initial facial changes usually involve the tissues above the upper jaw maxilla or between the nose and the upper corner of the lip nasolabial fold and subsequently progress to the angle of the mouth, areas around the eye, the brow, the ear, and the neck.
The deterioration may also affect the tongue, the soft and fleshy part of the roof of the mouth, and the gums.
The eye and cheek of the affected side may become sunken and facial hair may turn white and fall out alopecia.
In addition, the skin overlying affected areas may become darkly pigmented hyperpigmentation with, in some cases, areas of hyperpigmentation and patches of unpigmented skin vitiligo.
Parry-Romberg syndrome is also accompanied by neurological abnormalities including seizures and episodes of severe facial pain trigeminal neuralgia.
The onset of the disease usually begins between the ages of 5 and 15 years.
The progression of the atrophy often lasts from 2 to 10 years, and then the process seems to enter a stable phase.
Muscles in the face may atrophy and there may be bone loss in the facial bones.
Problems with the retina and optic nerve may occur when the disease surrounds the eye.
What is A healthy diet?
A healthy diet is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
What should you expect when Starting Cardiac Rehabilitation?
Your doctor may refer you to cardiac rehabilitation rehab during an office visit or while you're in the hospital recovering from a heart attack or heart surgery.
If your doctor doesn't mention it, ask him or her whether cardiac rehab might benefit you.
Does the intradermal flu vaccine provide the same protection as the regular flu vaccine?
Yes.
In adults 18-64 years of age, the intradermal vaccine has been shown to provide an immune response similar to the regular flu shot that is given in the muscle.
What is Cardiac catheterization?
Cardiac catheterization is a procedure used to diagnose and treat certain heart conditions.
What is Dandy-Walker Syndrome?
Dandy-Walker Syndrome is a congenital brain malformation involving the cerebellum an area at the back of the brain that controls movement and the fluid-filled spaces around it.
The key features of this syndrome are an enlargement of the fourth ventricle a small channel that allows fluid to flow freely between the upper and lower areas of the brain and spinal cord, a partial or complete absence of the area of the brain between the two cerebellar hemispheres cerebellar vermis, and cyst formation near the lowest part of the skull.
An increase in the size of the fluid spaces surrounding the brain as well as an increase in pressure may also be present.
What is Alzheimer's Disease?
Alzheimer's disease AD is an age-related, non-reversible brain disorder that develops over a period of years.
Initially, people experience memory loss and confusion, which may be mistaken for the kinds of memory changes that are sometimes associated with normal aging.
However, the symptoms of AD gradually lead to behavior and personality changes, a decline in cognitive abilities such as decision-making and language skills, and problems recognizing family and friends.
AD ultimately leads to a severe loss of mental function.
These losses are related to the worsening breakdown of the connections between certain neurons in the brain and their eventual death.
AD is one of a group of disorders called dementias that are characterized by cognitive and behavioral problems.
It is the most common cause of dementia among people age 65 and older.
What is A coronary calcium scan?
A coronary calcium scan is a test that looks for specks of calcium in the walls of the coronary heart arteries.
Who Is at Risk for Sickle Cell Anemia?
In the United States, it's estimated that sickle cell anemia affects 70,000 - 100,000 people, mainly African Americans.
The disease occurs in about 1 out of every 500 African American births.
Sickle cell anemia also affects Hispanic Americans.
The disease occurs in more than 1 out of every 36,000 Hispanic American births.
What is Neurotoxicity?
Neurotoxicity occurs when the exposure to natural or manmade toxic substances neurotoxicants alters the normal activity of the nervous system.
This can eventually disrupt or even kill neurons, key cells that transmit and process signals in the brain and other parts of the nervous system.
Neurotoxicity can result from exposure to substances used in chemotherapy, radiation treatment, drug therapies, and organ transplants, as well as exposure to heavy metals such as lead and mercury, certain foods and food additives, pesticides, industrial and/or cleaning solvents, cosmetics, and some naturally occurring substances.
Symptoms may appear immediately after exposure or be delayed.
They may include limb weakness or numbness; loss of memory, vision, and/or intellect; headache; cognitive and behavioral problems; and sexual dysfunction.
Individuals with certain disorders may be especially vulnerable to neurotoxicants.
What is Secondhand smoke?
Secondhand smoke is a mixture of gases and fine particles.
Are There Any Special Issues for Asian Women Regarding Bone Health?
Compared with Caucasian women, Asian women have been found to consume less calcium.
One reason for this may be that up to 90 percent of Asian Americans are lactose intolerant.
Therefore, they may avoid dairy products, the primary source of calcium in the diet.
Calcium is essential for building and maintaining a healthy skeleton.
How Is Vasculitis Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose vasculitis based on your signs and symptoms, your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
Who should not be vaccinated?
Your healthcare provider is the best source of information on the benefits and risks of vaccines.
Before your child receives a dose of any vaccine, discuss with your healthcare provider any health problems that your child may have and any medications that your child is currently taking or has been prescribed.
Also, discuss any concerns you might have about vaccination.
Infants who are allergic to any of the ingredients of the vaccine or who have an allergic reaction after getting a dose of the vaccine should not be vaccinated.
Tell your doctor about any allergies your child has.
Infants diagnosed with severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome SCID should not receive rotavirus vaccine.
How often do I need a well-woman visit?
For example, the doctor or nurse may ask you to come in for a follow-up visit to discuss the results of a screening.
Or you may need a separate appointment to get a specific service.
What Is Hemolytic Anemia?
White blood cells and platelets PLATE-lets also are made in the bone marrow.
White blood cells help fight infections.
Platelets stick together to seal small cuts or breaks on blood vessel walls and stop bleeding.
What Causes Bronchiectasis?
Other conditions, such as an airway blockage, also can lead to bronchiectasis.
Many things can cause a blockage, such as a growth or a noncancerous tumor.
An inhaled object, such as a piece of a toy or a peanut that you inhaled as a child, also can cause an airway blockage.
What research is being done for Paroxysmal Choreoathetosis?
NINDS supports and conducts research on movement disorders such as paroxysmal choreoathetosis.
Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.
What is Standards for judging what?
Standards for judging what is an acceptable, tolerable or normal quantity of mold have not been established.
What is An EKG electrocardiogram?
An EKG electrocardiogram is a simple test that detects and records your heart's electrical activity.
What is the Prognosis?
Another commonly used scale is the Movement Disorders Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale MDS-UPDRS.
This four-part scale measures motor movement in PD: non-motor experiences of daily living, motor experiences of daily living, motor examination, and motor complications.
Both the Hoehn and Yahr scale and the MDS-UPDRS are used to describe how individuals are faring and help to assess how much treatments are helping them.
What if I've been diagnosed with Chagas disease but have a normal EKG?
If you have been diagnosed with Chagas disease, your doctor may perform an electrocardiogram EKG or ECG to check for any problems with the electrical activity of your heart.
Even if this test is normal, you still may need to be given antiparasitic medication used to treat Chagas disease.
Your physician may wish to review CDC's recommendations for evaluation and treatment for more information.
How Can Broken Heart Syndrome Be Prevented?
Also, some of the ways people cope with stress - such as drinking, smoking, or overeating - aren't healthy.
Learning to manage stress includes adopting healthy habits that will keep your stress levels low and make it easier to deal with stress when it does happen.
A healthy lifestyle includes following a healthy diet, being physically active, maintaining a healthy weight, and quitting smoking.
What is Schizencephaly?
Schizencephaly is a form of porencephaly.
What is The CT scanner?
The CT scanner is a large, tunnel-like machine with a hole in the center.
How are foodborne illnesses treated?
Over-the-counter medications such as loperamide Imodium and bismuth subsalicylate Pepto-Bismol and Kaopectate may help stop diarrhea in adults.
However, people with bloody diarrhea - a sign of bacterial or parasitic infection - should not use these medications.
If diarrhea is caused by bacteria or parasites, over-the-counter medications may prolong the problem.
Medications to treat diarrhea in adults can be dangerous for infants and children and should only be given with a health care provider's guidance.
What kind of genetic changes are included in H5N1 inventory?
Genetic changes occur that affect the amino acid sequence of the proteins of the viruses.
These changes in amino acids affect properties of proteins - such as hemagglutinin HA or neuraminidase NA, the surface proteins of influenza viruses.
Genetic changes in amino acids - the substitution of one amino acid for another - can affect the properties of a virus such as how well a virus grows, how well it transmits between hosts or its susceptibility to antiviral drugs.
Influenza researchers conduct a range of studies that look at how genetic changes influence certain properties of H5N1 influenza viruses.
The inventory of amino acid changes in H5N1 influenza viruses helps researchers identify amino acid sequences that may increase pandemic potential.
How is it diagnosed?
The most common screening methods used to look for spina bifida during pregnancy are second trimester 16-18 weeks of gestation maternal serum alpha fetoprotein MSAFP screening and fetal ultrasound.
The MSAFP screen measures the level of a protein called alpha-fetoprotein AFP, which is made naturally by the fetus and placenta.
During pregnancy, a small amount of AFP normally crosses the placenta and enters the mother's bloodstream.
If abnormally high levels of this protein appear in the mother's bloodstream, it may indicate that the fetus has an 'open' not skin-covered neural tube defect.
The MSAFP test, however, is not specific for spina bifida and requires correct gestational dates to be most accurate; it cannot definitively determine that there is a problem with the fetus.
If a high level of AFP is detected, the doctor may request additional testing, such as an ultrasound or amniocentesis to help determine the cause.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
What if we stopped vaccinating for this disease?
What is Yearly vaccination?
Yearly vaccination is the first and most important step in protecting against flu.
What is Hirschsprung disease HD?
Hirschsprung disease HD is a disease of the large intestine that causes severe constipation or intestinal obstruction.
What Causes Respiratory Failure?
Lung diseases and conditions, such as COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pneumonia, ARDS acute respiratory distress syndrome, pulmonary embolism, and cystic fibrosis.
These diseases and conditions can affect the flow of air and blood into and out of your lungs.
ARDS and pneumonia affect gas exchange in the air sacs.
What is A recurrent brain tumor?
A recurrent brain tumor is a tumor that has recurred come back after it has been treated.
How do people get Chagas disease?
People can become infected in various ways.
In Chagas disease-endemic areas, the main way is through vectorborne transmission.
The insect vectors are called triatomine bugs.
These blood-sucking bugs get infected by biting an infected animal or person.
Once infected, the bugs pass T.
cruzi parasites in their feces.
The bugs are found in houses made from materials such as mud, adobe, straw, and palm thatch.
During the day, the bugs hide in crevices in the walls and roofs.
During the night, when the inhabitants are sleeping, the bugs emerge.
Because they tend to feed on people's faces, triatomine bugs are also known as kissing bugs.
 After they bite and ingest blood, they defecate on the person.
The person can become infected if T.
cruzi parasites in the bug feces enter the body through mucous membranes or breaks in the skin.
The unsuspecting, sleeping person may accidentally scratch or rub the feces into the bite wound, eyes, or mouth.
How do I know which screening tests to get?
Different screening tests are needed at different ages.
Check the screening guidelines below for your age and sex.
Use these guidelines to start a conversation with your doctor about screening.
Who Treats Rheumatoid Arthritis?
The primary doctor to treat arthritis may be an internist, a doctor who specializes in the diagnosis and medical treatment of adults, or a rheumatologist, a doctor who specializes in arthritis and other diseases of the bones, joints, and muscles.
What do I need to know about diarrhea - National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse?
is frequent, loose, and watery bowel movements.
Bowel movements, also called stools, are body wastes passed through the rectum and anus .
Stools contain what is left after your digestive system absorbs nutrients and fluids from what you eat and drink.
If your body does not absorb the fluids, or if your digestive system produces extra fluids, stools will be loose and watery.
Loose stools contain more water, salts, and minerals and weigh more than solid stools.
Diarrhea that lasts a short time is called acute diarrhea.
Acute diarrhea is a common problem and usually lasts only 1 or 2 days, but it may last longer.
Diarrhea that lasts for at least 4 weeks is called chronic diarrhea.
Chronic diarrhea symptoms may be continual or they may come and go.
What is Alexander disease?
Alexander disease is a progressive and often fatal disease.
What Is Restless Legs Syndrome?
Restless legs syndrome RLS is a disorder that causes a strong urge to move your legs.
This urge to move often occurs with strange and unpleasant feelings in your legs.
Moving your legs relieves the urge and the unpleasant feelings.
How do NSAIDs cause a peptic ulcer?
NSAIDs work by inhibiting two enzymes, substances that cause chemical changes in the body, called COX-1 and COX-2.
Both enzymes produce prostaglandins - chemicals produced in the body's cells - that promote pain, inflammation, and fever.
How Does Oxygen Therapy Work?
Oxygen therapy provides you with extra oxygen, a gas that your body needs to work well.
Oxygen comes in different forms and can be delivered to your lungs in several ways.
What research is being done for Piriformis Syndrome?
Within the NINDS research programs, piriformis syndrome is addressed primarily through studies associated with pain research.
NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for pain and nerve damage with the ultimate goal of reversing debilitating conditions such as piriformis syndrome.
How is celiac disease treated?
The only treatment for celiac disease is a gluten-free diet.
If you avoid gluten, your small intestine will heal.
If you eat gluten or use items that contain gluten, celiac disease will continue to harm your small intestine.
How isBalamuthia diagnosed?
Infections with Balamuthia can be diagnosed on biopsies of skin, brain, and other infected tissues through routine pathologic testing.
Specialized tests available only through health departments are needed to confirm if the amebas are Balamuthia or another type of ameba.
CDC is available to help health departments obtain confirmatory testing for Balamuthia.
What Is Anorexia Nervosa?
Individuals with anorexia become obsessed with food and severely restrict their dietary intake.
The disease is associated with several health problems and, in rare cases, even death.
The disorder may begin as early as the onset of puberty.
The first menstrual period is typically delayed in girls who have anorexia when they reach puberty.
For girls who have already reached puberty when they develop anorexia, menstrual periods are often infrequent or absent.
How is PAP therapy also used?
PAP therapy also is used to treat obstructive sleep apnea.
What is the prognosis for Inflammatory Myopathies?
Most cases of dermatomyositis respond to therapy.
The prognosis for polymyositis varies.
Most individuals respond fairly well to therapy, but some people have a more severe disease that does not respond adequately to therapies and are left with significant disability.
IBM is generally resistant to all therapies and its rate of progression appears to be unaffected by currently available treatments.
How Is Hemolytic Anemia Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose hemolytic anemia based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and test results.
What should you expect before Transesophageal Echocardiography?
Talk with your doctor about whether you need to take any special steps before having TEE.
Your doctor can tell you whether you need to change how you take your regular medicines on the day of the test or whether you need to make other changes.
What are the complications of ostomy surgery of the bowel?
Complications of ostomy surgery of the bowel may include.
What is the prognosis for Autism?
For many children, autism symptoms improve with treatment and with age.
Some children with autism grow up to lead normal or near-normal lives.
Children whose language skills regress early in life, usually before the age of 3, appear to be at risk of developing epilepsy or seizure-like brain activity.
During adolescence, some children with autism may become depressed or experience behavioral problems.
Parents of these children should be ready to adjust treatment for their child as needed.
People with an ASD usually continue to need services and support as they get older but many are able to work successfully and live independently or within a supportive environment.
What is A colostomy?
A colostomy is a stoma created from a part of the colon.
Who gets this disorder?
The number of people who develop hydrocephalus or who are currently living with it is difficult to establish since the condition occurs in children and adults, and can develop later in life.
A 2008 data review by the University of Utah found that, in 2003, hydrocephalus accounted for 0.6 percent of all pediatric hospital admissions in the United States.
Some estimates report one to two of every 1,000 babies are born with hydrocephalus.
What are Pervasive Developmental Disorders?
The diagnostic category of pervasive developmental disorders PDD refers to a group of disorders characterized by delays in the development of socialization and communication skills.
Parents may note symptoms as early as infancy, although the typical age of onset is before 3 years of age.
Symptoms may include problems with using and understanding language; difficulty relating to people, objects, and events; unusual play with toys and other objects; difficulty with changes in routine or familiar surroundings, and repetitive body movements or behavior patterns.
Autism a developmental brain disorder characterized by impaired social interaction and communication skills, and a limited range of activities and interests is the most characteristic and best studied PDD.
Other types of PDD include Asperger's Syndrome, Childhood Disintegrative Disorder, and Rett's Syndrome.
Children with PDD vary widely in abilities, intelligence, and behaviors.
Some children do not speak at all, others speak in limited phrases or conversations, and some have relatively normal language development.
Repetitive play skills and limited social skills are generally evident.
Unusual responses to sensory information, such as loud noises and lights, are also common.
Are there any restrictions about owning amphibians or reptiles?
Despite this ban, such turtles are still found in some pet stores, flea markets, with street vendors, or sold over the Internet.
In addition, children still catch wild turtles and lizards and bring them home to keep as pets.
Whether purchased or caught in a backyard, a reptile or amphibian can carry Salmonella and might not be the best choice of a pet for your family, especially if there are young children or persons with weakened immune systems in the household.
Why is developmental screening important?
When a developmental delay is not recognized early, children must wait to get the help they need.
This can make it hard for them to learn when they start school.
In the United States, 13 percent of children have a developmental or behavioral disability such as autism, intellectual disability also known as mental retardation, or Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder ADHD.
In addition, many children have delays in language or other areas.
But, less than half of children with problems are identified before starting school.
During this time, the child could have received help for these problems and may even have entered school more ready to learn.
What is Meralgia paresthetica?
Meralgia paresthetica is a disorder characterized by tingling, numbness, and burning pain in the outer side of the thigh.
What is A craniopharyngioma?
A craniopharyngioma is a rare tumor that usually forms just above the pituitary gland a pea-sized organ at the bottom of the brain that controls other glands.
What is Locked-In Syndrome?
Locked-in syndrome is a rare neurological disorder characterized by complete paralysis of voluntary muscles in all parts of the body except for those that control eye movement.
It may result from traumatic brain injury, diseases of the circulatory system, diseases that destroy the myelin sheath surrounding nerve cells, or medication overdose.
Individuals with locked-in syndrome are conscious and can think and reason, but are unable to speak or move.
The disorder leaves individuals completely mute and paralyzed.
Communication may be possible with blinking eye movements.
What is Anaplasmosis?
Anaplasmosis is a disease caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilium.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What is the prognosis for Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus?
The symptoms of NPH usually get worse over time if the condition is not treated, although some people may experience temporary improvements.
While the success of treatment with shunts varies from person to person, some people recover almost completely after treatment and have a good quality of life.
Early diagnosis and treatment improves the chance of a good recovery.
Without treatment, symptoms may worsen and cause death.
Why do I need to protect my skin from the sun?
Protecting your skin from the sun today may help prevent skin cancer later in life.
Most skin cancer appears after age 50, but skin damage from the sun can start during childhood.
What is Angelman syndrome?
Angelman syndrome is a genetic disorder that causes developmental delay and neurological problems.
What is the treatment forBalamuthia?
Currently, treatment recommendations include the use of a combination of several medicines that have been used with success in a few patients with Balamuthia GAE.
To date, treatment plans have been based on lab studies of the ameba and the few cases in which the patients have survived after treatment.
How Is LAM Treated?
Currently, no treatment is available to stop the growth of the cysts and cell clusters that occur in LAM.
Most treatments for LAM are aimed at easing symptoms and preventing complications.
What Causes Hemolytic Anemia?
Many diseases, conditions, and factors can cause the body to destroy its red blood cells.
These causes can be inherited or acquired.
Inherited means your parents passed the gene for the condition on to you.
Acquired means you aren't born with the condition, but you develop it.
What Are the Symptoms?
In the early stages of osteonecrosis, people may not have any symptoms.
As the disease progresses, however, most experience joint pain.
At first, the pain occurs only when putting weight on the affected joint.
Later, it occurs even when resting.
Pain usually develops gradually, and may be mild or severe.
If osteonecrosis progresses and the bone and surrounding joint surface collapse, pain may develop or increase dramatically.
Pain may be severe enough to limit range of motion in the affected joint.
In some cases, particularly those involving the hip, disabling osteoarthritis may develop.
The period between the first symptoms and loss of joint function is different for each person, but it typically ranges from several months to more than a year.
What is Holmes-Adie syndrome ?
Holmes-Adie syndrome HAS is a neurological disorder affecting the pupil of the eye and the autonomic nervous system.
It is characterized by one eye with a pupil that is larger than normal and constricts slowly in bright light tonic pupil, along with the absence of deep tendon reflexes, usually in the Achilles tendon.
HAS is thought to be the result of a neurotrophic acting on neurons, or nerve cells viral infection that causes inflammation and damage to neurons in the ciliary ganglion, an area of the brain that controls eye movements, and the dorsal root ganglion, an area of the spinal cord involved in the response of the autonomic nervous system.
HAS begins gradually in one eye, and often progresses to involve the other eye.
At first, it may only cause the loss of deep tendon reflexes on one side of the body, but then progress to the other side.
The eye and reflex symptoms may not appear at the same time.
People with HAS may also sweat excessively, sometimes only on one side of the body.
The combination of these 3 symptoms - abnormal pupil size, loss of deep tendon reflexes, and excessive sweating - is usually called Ross's syndrome, although some doctors will still diagnose the condition as a variant of HAS.
Some individuals will also have cardiovascular abnormalities.
The HAS symptoms can appear on their own, or in association with other diseases of the nervous system, such as Sjogren's syndrome or migraine.
It is most often seen in young women.
It is rarely an inherited condition.
What is The CT scanner?
The CT scanner is a large, tunnel-like machine that has a hole in the middle.
What medications are available to treat variant flu infections in humans?
There are four different antiviral drugs that are licensed for use in the United States for the treatment of influenza: amantadine, rimantadine, oseltamivir and zanamivir.
In the past, most variant influenza viruses had been susceptible to all four drugs, however the most recent variant influenza viruses isolated from humans are resistant to amantadine and rimantadine.
At this time, CDC recommends the use of oseltamivir or zanamivir for the treatment and/or prevention of infection with these variant influenza viruses.
How is IBS treated?
Though IBS does not have a cure, the symptoms can be treated with a combination of.
How is a flexible sigmoidoscopy performed?
For the test, the person will lie on a table while the health care provider inserts a sigmoidoscope into the anus and slowly guides it through the rectum and into the sigmoid colon.
The scope inflates the large intestine with air to give the health care provider a better view.
The camera sends a video image of the intestinal lining to a computer screen, allowing the health care provider to examine the tissues lining the sigmoid colon and rectum.
The health care provider may ask the person to move several times so he or she can adjust the scope for better viewing.
Once the scope has reached the transverse colon, the health care provider withdraws it slowly while examining the lining of the colon again.
How is fecal incontinence diagnosed?
The person may be referred to a doctor who specializes in problems of the digestive system, such as a gastroenterologist, proctologist, or colorectal surgeon, or a doctor who specializes in problems of the urinary and reproductive systems, such as a urologist or urogynecologist.
The specialist will perform a physical exam and may suggest one or more of the following tests:
Who Is at Risk for Polycythemia Vera?
Polycythemia vera PV is a rare blood disease.
The disease affects people of all ages, but it's most common in adults who are older than 60.
PV is rare in children and young adults.
Men are at slightly higher risk for PV than women.
What is Psychogenic Movement?
Psychogenic movement is an unwanted muscle movement such as a spasm or tremor that is caused by an underlying psychological condition.
Psychogenic movement can involve any part of the body and resemble the same muscle movements that occur with a biological condition or structural abnormality.
Most psychogenic movement is involuntary - done without being consciously initiated by the individual.
Psychogenic movement may develop as part of a conversion disorder in which a psychological event causes physical symptoms with no known medical cause.
It also may result from a somatoform disorder characterized predominantly by multi-system symptoms that are associated with distress and/or dysfunction, factitious disorder an illness that simulates symptoms for psychological reasons, or malingering not characterized as a psychiatric disorder but where illness is pretended as a way to achieve a secondary goal such as the acquisition of drugs or disability benefits.
Unlike movement disorders caused by biological or structural conditions, psychogenic movement disorders commonly develop suddenly, progress rapidly to maximum severity, may increase in intensity, and come and go with complete or partial remissions.
The movement may be less when the person is distracted, and the severity of symptoms varies among individuals.
The course of the psychological condition may be short-lived or lead to chronic disability.
What Is Coronary Angiography?
If the plaque ruptures, a blood clot can form on its surface.
A large blood clot can mostly or completely block blood flow through a coronary artery.
This is the most common cause of a heart attack.
Over time, ruptured plaque also hardens and narrows the coronary arteries.
What is the prognosis for Hydranencephaly?
The outlook for children with hydranencephaly is generally poor, and many children with this disorder die before age 1.
However, in rare cases, children with hydranencephaly may survive for several years or more.
What research is being done for Apraxia?
The NINDS supports research on movement disorders and conditions such as apraxia.
The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
Want to learn more?
Your eating habits may be leading to weight gain; for example, eating too fast, always clearing your plate, eating when you're not hungry and skipping meals or maybe just breakfast.
Is there any treatment for Klippel-Trenaunay?
There is no cure for KTS.
Treatment is symptomatic.
Laser surgery can diminish or erase some skin lesions.
Surgery may correct discrepancies in limb size, but orthopedic devices may be more appropriate.
How Is Pericarditis Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose pericarditis based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
What is A subependymoma?
A subependymoma is a slow-growing neoplasm, typically attached to the ventricle wall and is composed of glial tumor cell clusters embedded in a fibrillary matrix.
How can hepatitis E be prevented?
There is no U.S.
Food and Drug Administration FDA-approved vaccine for hepatitis E.
The only way to prevent the disease is to reduce the risk of exposure to the virus.
Reducing risk of exposure means avoiding tap water when traveling internationally and practicing good hygiene and sanitation.
How is cirrhosis diagnosed?
a liver biopsy, in which a doctor uses a needle to take a small piece of liver tissue to view with a microscope to look for scar tissue.
What is Hypotonia?
Hypotonia is a medical term used to describe decreased muscle tone.
What are the rectum and colon?
The rectum and colon are part of the gastrointestinal GI tract, a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus - a 1-inch-long opening through which stool leaves the body.
The body digests food using the movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes.
Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine - which includes the appendix, cecum, colon, and rectum - and anus.
The intestines are sometimes called the bowel.
The last part of the GI tract - called the lower GI tract - consists of the large intestine and anus.
Who shouldn't be vaccinated?
People with a history of Guillain - Barre Syndrome a severe paralytic illness, also called GBS that occurred after receiving influenza vaccine and who are not at risk for severe illness from influenza should generally not receive vaccine.
Tell your doctor if you ever had Guillain-Barre Syndrome.
Your doctor will help you decide whether the vaccine is recommended for you.
How Can Varicose Veins Be Prevented?
Avoid standing or sitting for long periods without taking a break.
When sitting, avoid crossing your legs.
Keep your legs raised when sitting, resting, or sleeping.
When you can, raise your legs above the level of your heart.
What are the symptoms of autoimmune hepatitis?
Symptoms of autoimmune hepatitis range from mild to severe.
Some people may feel as if they have a mild case of the flu.
Others may have no symptoms when a health care provider diagnoses the disease; however, they can develop symptoms later.
What research is being done for Dystonias?
The ultimate goals of research are to find the causes of the dystonias so that they can be prevented, and to find ways to cure or more effectively treat people who are affected.
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, a part of the National Institutes of Health NIH, is the Federal agency with primary responsibility for brain and neuromuscular research.
NINDS sponsors research on dystonia both in its facilities at the NIH and through grants to medical centers and institutions throughout the country.
Scientists at other NIH institutes also conduct research that may benefit individuals with dystonia.
Scientists at the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders NIDCD are studying improved treatments for speech and voice disorders associated with dystonia.
The National Eye Institute NEI supports work on the study of blepharospasm and related problems, and the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development NICHD supports work on dystonia, including the rehabilitation for the disorder.
How does smoking affect peptic ulcers?
Researchers are studying how smoking contributes to peptic ulcers.
Studies suggest that smoking increases the risk of H.
pylori infection, slows the healing of peptic ulcers, and increases the likelihood that peptic ulcers will recur.
The stomach and duodenum contain acids, enzymes, and other substances that help digest food.
However, these substances may also harm the lining of these organs.
Smoking has not been shown to increase acid production.
However, smoking does increase the production of other substances that may harm the lining, such as pepsin, an enzyme made in the stomach that breaks down proteins.
Smoking also decreases factors that protect or heal the lining, including.
9.
Can a father's drinking cause harm to the baby?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33559169.xml:
What is Growing Stronger?
Growing Stronger is an exercise program based upon sound scientific research involving strengthening exercises - exercises that have been shown to increase the strength of your muscles, maintain the integrity of your bones, and improve your balance, coordination, and mobility.
What Causes Carotid Artery Disease?
The plaque in an artery can crack or rupture.
If this happens, blood cell fragments called platelets will stick to the site of the injury and may clump together to form blood clots.

What research is being done for Neurological Complications of Lyme Disease?
The NINDS supports research on Lyme disease.
Current areas of interest include improving diagnostic tests and developing more effective treatments.
The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases NIAID, the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases NIAMS, and the National Center for Research Resources NCRR, all parts of the National Institutes of Health NIH, also support research on Lyme disease.
What research is being done for Charcot-Marie-Tooth?
One promising area of research involves gene therapy experiments.
Research with cell cultures and animal models has shown that it is possible to deliver genes to Schwann cells and muscle.
Another area of research involves the use of trophic factors or nerve growth factors, such as the hormone androgen, to prevent nerve degeneration.
Vitamin C has been studied in CMT1A and the results of a multicentric trial are due soon.
Curcumin, a component of curry, is currently being studied as a treatment strategy in an animal model of CMT1B.
What research is being done for Aphasia?
The NINDS and the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders conduct and support a broad range of scientific investigations to increase our understanding of aphasia, find better treatments, and discover improved methods to restore lost function to people who have aphasia.
Is there any treatment for Peripheral Neuropathy?
No medical treatments exist that can cure inherited peripheral neuropathy.
However, there are therapies for many other forms.
In general, adopting healthy habits -- such as maintaining optimal weight, avoiding exposure to toxins, following a physician-supervised exercise program, eating a balanced diet, correcting vitamin deficiencies, and limiting or avoiding alcohol consumption -- can reduce the physical and emotional effects of peripheral neuropathy.
Systemic diseases frequently require more complex treatments.
What is Sjoegren's Syndrome?
Sjoegren's syndrome is an autoimmune disorder in which immune cells attack and destroy the glands that produce tears and saliva.
Sjoegren's syndrome is also associated with rheumatic disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis.
The hallmark symptoms of the disorder are dry mouth and dry eyes.
In addition, Sjogren's syndrome may cause skin, nose, and vaginal dryness, and may affect other organs of the body including the kidneys, blood vessels, lungs, liver, pancreas, and brain.
Which workers are at risk of infection?
All outdoor workers should check with their supervisor if they have questions about possible exposure to ticks.
Workers at risk of tick-borne diseases include, but are not limited to, those working in the following:
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
What is Spinal Cord Infarction?
Spinal cord infarction is a stroke either within the spinal cord or the arteries that supply it.
It is caused by arteriosclerosis or a thickening or closing of the major arteries to the spinal cord.
Frequently spinal cord infarction is caused by a specific form of arteriosclerosis called atheromatosis, in which a deposit or accumulation of lipid-containing matter forms within the arteries.
Symptoms, which generally appear within minutes or a few hours of the infarction, may include intermittent sharp or burning back pain, aching pain down through the legs, weakness in the legs, paralysis, loss of deep tendon reflexes, loss of pain and temperature sensation, and incontinence.
What are the benefits of managing stress?
Over time, stress can lead to health problems.
Managing stress can help you:
What is Guillain-Barre syndrome GBS?
Guillain-Barre syndrome GBS is a rare disorder in which a person's own immune system damages their nerve cells, causing muscle weakness and sometimes paralysis.
What is A bone marrow biopsy?
A bone marrow biopsy is the followup test.
What Causes Broken Heart Syndrome?
Although symptoms are similar to those of a heart attack, what is happening to the heart is quite different.
Most heart attacks are caused by near or complete blockage of a coronary artery.
In broken heart syndrome, the coronary arteries are not blocked, although blood flow may be reduced.
What Are the Risks of Lung Transplant?
Survival rates for double-lung transplants are slightly better.
Recent data show that the median survival for single-lung recipients is 4.6 years.
The median survival for double-lung recipients is 6.6 years.
Talk with your doctor about what these figures may mean for you.
What is Central pain syndrome?
Central pain syndrome is a neurological condition caused by damage to or dysfunction of the central nervous system CNS, which includes the brain, brainstem, and spinal cord.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
People Who Should Not Get Smallpox Vaccine Even After Monkeypox Exposure.
What should you expect during Carotid Endarterectomy?
You will have anesthesia AN-es-THE-ze-ah during the surgery so you don't feel pain.
The term anesthesia refers to a loss of feeling and awareness.
General anesthesia temporarily puts you to sleep.
Local anesthesia numbs only certain areas of your body.
What is the prognosis for Paraneoplastic Syndromes?
There are no cures for paraneoplastic syndromes.
There are no available treatments to stop progressive neurological damage.
Generally, the stage of cancer at diagnosis determines the outcome.
What Causes Juvenile Arthritis?
Most forms of juvenile arthritis are autoimmune disorders, which means that the body's immune system - which normally helps to fight off bacteria or viruses - mistakenly attacks some of its own healthy cells and tissues.
The result is inflammation, marked by redness, heat, pain, and swelling.
Inflammation can cause joint damage.
Doctors do not know why the immune system attacks healthy tissues in children who develop juvenile arthritis.
Scientists suspect that it is a two-step process.
First, something in a child's genetic makeup gives him or her a tendency to develop juvenile arthritis; then an environmental factor, such as a virus, triggers the development of the disease.
How Can Thalassemias Be Prevented?
If you know of family members who have thalassemias and you're thinking of having children, consider talking with your doctor and a genetic counselor.
They can help determine your risk for passing the disorder to your children.
What is Duchenne MD?
Duchenne MD is the most common form of MD and primarily affects boys.
What Is Fibrous Dysplasia?
Some people with fibrous dysplasia have only one bone involved monostotic, whereas other people have more than one bone involved polyostotic.
The disease may occur alone, or as part of a condition known as the McCune-Albright syndrome.
McCune-Albright syndrome is characterized by fibrous dysplasia and other symptoms such as patches of pigmented skin light brown or 'cafe-au-lait' spots and endocrine problems such as early puberty precocious puberty, hyperthyroidism excess thyroid hormone, excess growth hormone gigantism or acromegaly, excess cortisol Cushing's syndrome, and other rare conditions.
What are the Symptoms of Shingles?
The first sign of shingles is often burning or tingling pain, or itch, in one particular location on only one side of the body.
After several days or a week, a rash of fluid-filled blisters appears.
These are similar to chickenpox but appear in a cluster rather than scattered over the body.
The cluster typically appears in one area on one side of the body.
Recent studies have shown that subtle cases of shingles with only a few blisters, or none, are more common than previously thought.
These cases may remain unrecognized.
Cases without any known lesions are known as zoster sineherpete.
Who Needs Cardiac Catheterization?
Cardiac catheterization also might be used if your doctor thinks you have a heart defect or if you're about to have heart surgery.
The procedure shows the overall shape of your heart and the four large spaces heart chambers inside it.
This inside view of the heart will show certain heart defects and help your doctor plan your heart surgery.
What other examples of outbreaks with influenza viruses that normally circulate in swine are there?
Probably the most well-known is an outbreak of 'swine flu' among soldiers in Fort Dix, New Jersey in 1976.
The virus caused disease with x-ray evidence of pneumonia in at least four soldiers with one death; all of these patients had previously been healthy.
The virus was transmitted to close contacts in a basic training environment, with limited transmission outside the basic training group.
The virus is thought to have circulated for a month and then disappeared.
The source of the virus, the exact time of its introduction into Fort Dix, and factors limiting its spread and duration are unknown.
The Fort Dix outbreak may have been caused by introduction of an animal virus into a stressed human population in close contact in crowded facilities during the winter.
The variant influenza A virus collected from a Fort Dix soldier was named A/New Jersey/76 Hsw1N1.
In July 2012, outbreaks of an H3N2v virus were detected in the United States.
For more information, visit the CDC H3N2v landing page.
What causes diverticular disease?
Doctors are not sure what causes diverticular disease.
Many think a diet low in fiber is the main cause.
Fiber is a part of food that your body cannot digest.
It is found in many fruits and vegetables.
Fiber stays in the colon and absorbs water, which makes bowel movements easier to pass.
Diets low in fiber may cause constipation, which occurs when stools are hard and difficult to pass.
Constipation causes your muscles to strain when you pass stool.
Straining may cause diverticula to form in the colon.
If stool or bacteria get caught in the pouches, diverticulitis can occur.
What are Infantile Spasms?
An infantile spasm IS is a specific type of seizure seen in an epilepsy syndrome of infancy and childhood known as West Syndrome.
West Syndrome is characterized by infantile spasms, developmental regression, and a specific pattern on electroencephalography EEG testing called hypsarrhythmia chaotic brain waves.
The onset of infantile spasms is usually in the first year of life, typically between 4-8 months.
The seizures primarily consist of a sudden bending forward of the body with stiffening of the arms and legs; some children arch their backs as they extend their arms and legs.
Spasms tend to occur upon awakening or after feeding, and often occur in clusters of up to 100 spasms at a time.
Infants may have dozens of clusters and several hundred spasms per day.
Infantile spasms usually stop by age five, but may be replaced by other seizure types.
Many underlying disorders, such as birth injury, metabolic disorders, and genetic disorders can give rise to spasms, making it important to identify the underlying cause.
In some children, no cause can be found.
How do you keep mold out of buildings and homes?
As part of routine building maintenance, buildings should be inspected for evidence of water damage and visible mold.
The conditions causing mold such as water leaks, condensation, infiltration, or flooding should be corrected to prevent mold from growing.
What is Bevacizumab Bevacizumab?
Bevacizumab Bevacizumab is a partially humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to vascular endothelial growth factor.
What research is being done for Motor?
Several early-stage clinical trials are testing the safety and feasibility of novel treatment strategies for ALS.
These include cell-based approaches such as the transplantation of neural precursor cells into the spinal cord of ALS patients, and the infusion of so-called 'anti-sense' compounds into the fluid that surrounds the spinal cord and brain to block production of toxic SOD1 protein in ALS patients who carry SOD1 mutations.
What are some common signs of autism?
Many children with an ASD engage in repetitive movements such as rocking and twirling, or in self-abusive behavior such as biting or head-banging.
They also tend to start speaking later than other children and may refer to themselves by name instead of 'I' or 'me.' Children with an ASD don't know how to play interactively with other children.
Some speak in a sing-song voice about a narrow range of favorite topics, with little regard for the interests of the person to whom they are speaking.
How can I avoid getting the flu or giving the flu to others?
The flu is spread from person-to-person by coughing or sneezing by people with influenza.
Sometimes people may become infected by touching something - such as a surface or object - with flu viruses on it and then touching their mouth or nose.
You can take simple actions to protect yourself and others from getting the flu:
What is Metabolic syndrome?
Metabolic syndrome is a group of risk factors that raises your risk for heart disease and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke.
How much calcium do I need?
It's very important to your bone health that you receive adequate daily amounts of calcium, vitamin D, phosphorus, and magnesium.
These vitamins and minerals are the most influential in building bones and teeth.
This chart will help you decide how much calcium you need.
Is there any treatment for Dementia?
Drugs to specifically treat Alzheimer's disease and some other progressive dementias are now available.
Although these drugs do not halt the disease or reverse existing brain damage, they can improve symptoms and slow the progression of the disease.
This may improve an individual's quality of life, ease the burden on caregivers, or delay admission to a nursing home.
Many researchers are also examining whether these drugs may be useful for treating other types of dementia.
Many people with dementia, particularly those in the early stages, may benefit from practicing tasks designed to improve performance in specific aspects of cognitive functioning.
For example, people can sometimes be taught to use memory aids, such as mnemonics, computerized recall devices, or note taking.
Is there any treatment for Empty Sella Syndrome?
Unless the syndrome results in other medical problems, treatment for endocrine dysfunction associated with pituitary malfunction is symptomatic and supportive.
In some cases, surgery may be needed.
What Are Researchers Trying to Learn About Growth Plate Injuries?
NIAMS currently funds Core Centers for Musculoskeletal Disorders at major medical centers.
These centers provide the resources for established, currently funded investigators who are often from different disciplines, to adopt a multidisciplinary approach to common research problems in musculoskeletal disorders.
What is Project CHOICES?
Project CHOICES is a brief motivational intervention for reducing alcohol-exposed pregnancies among women who are at high risk for such pregnancies.
Who Needs a Pacemaker?
You faint or have other symptoms of a slow heartbeat.
For example, this may happen if the main artery in your neck that supplies your brain with blood is sensitive to pressure.
Just quickly turning your neck can cause your heart to beat slower than normal.
As a result, your brain might not get enough blood flow, causing you to feel faint or collapse.
When should I see a health care provider for diarrhea?
You should see a health care provider if you have any of the following symptoms: signs of dehydration.
What research is being done for Meningitis?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, a component of the National Institutes of Health NIH within the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, conducts and supports a wide range of research on neurological disorders, including meningitis and encephalitis.
Current research efforts include gaining a better understanding of how the central nervous system responds to inflammation and the role of T cells blood cells involved in immune system response in suppressing infection in the brain.
Scientists hope to better understand the molecular mechanisms involved in the protection and disruption of the blood-brain barrier, which could lead to the development of new treatments for several neuroinflammatory diseases such as meningitis and encephalitis.
Other scientists hope to define, at a molecular level, how certain viruses overcome the body's defense mechanism and interact with target host cells.
A possible therapeutic approach under investigation involves testing neuroprotective compounds that block the damage that accumulates after the infection and inflammation of meningitis and encephalitis and can lead to potential complications including loss of cognitive function and dementia.
How does a person prepare for a lower gastrointestinal series?
A person prepares for a lower GI series by.
Where can I find A growing focus?
A growing focus is on Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to educate the public, medical personnel, clinicians, public health workers, and the media on disease specific details, risk, and prevention information.
Who gets appendicitis?
Anyone can get appendicitis, although it is more common among people 10 to 30 years old.
What are the signs of diabetes?
Not everyone who has diabetes has these signs.
If you have any of these signs or think you may be at risk, talk with your doctor about getting tested for diabetes.
What are Paraneoplastic Syndromes?
Paraneoplastic syndromes are a group of rare disorders that are triggered by an abnormal immune system response to a cancerous tumor known as a neoplasm.
Paraneoplastic syndromes are thought to happen when cancer-fighting antibodies or white blood cells known as T cells mistakenly attack normal cells in the nervous system.
These disorders typically affect middle-aged to older people and are most common in individuals with lung, ovarian, lymphatic, or breast cancer.
Neurologic symptoms generally develop over a period of days to weeks and usually occur prior to the tumor being discovered.
These symptoms may include difficulty in walking or swallowing, loss of muscle tone, loss of fine motor coordination, slurred speech, memory loss, vision problems, sleep disturbances, dementia, seizures, sensory loss in the limbs, and vertigo or dizziness.
Paraneoplastic syndromes include Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, stiff-person syndrome, encephalomyelitis, myasthenia gravis, cerebellar degeneration, limbic or brainstem encephalitis, neuromyotonia, opsoclonus, and sensory neuropathy.
What is An ileoanal reservoir?
An ileoanal reservoir is an internal pouch made from the ileum.
Is there any treatment for Tay-Sachs Disease?
Presently there is no treatment for Tay-Sachs disease.
Anticonvulsant medicine may initially control seizures.
Other supportive treatment includes proper nutrition and hydration and techniques to keep the airway open.
Children may eventually need a feeding tube.
What is Anaplasmosis caused by?
Anaplasmosis is caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilum.
How Does Epilepsy Affect Daily Life?
Most people with epilepsy lead outwardly normal lives.
Approximately 80 percent can be significantly helped by modern therapies, and some may go months or years between seizures.
However, the condition can and does affect daily life for people with epilepsy, their family, and their friends.
People with severe seizures that resist treatment have, on average, a shorter life expectancy and an increased risk of cognitive impairment, particularly if the seizures developed in early childhood.
These impairments may be related to the underlying conditions that cause epilepsy or to epilepsy treatment rather than the epilepsy itself.
Is there any treatment for Dandy-Walker Syndrome?
Treatment for individuals with Dandy-Walker Syndrome generally consists of treating the associated problems, if needed.
A surgical procedure called a shunt may be required to drain off excess fluid within the brain.
This will reduce intracranial pressure and help control swelling.
Parents of children with Dandy-Walker Syndrome may benefit from genetic counseling if they intend to have more children.
What happened in 1976 with GBS and the swine flu vaccine?
In 1976 there was a small increased risk of GBS following vaccination with an influenza vaccine made to protect against a swine flu virus.
The increased risk was approximately 1 additional case of GBS per 100,000 people who got the swine flu vaccine.
The Institute of Medicine IOM conducted a thorough scientific review of this issue in 2003 and concluded that people who received the 1976 swine influenza vaccine had an increased risk for developing GBS.
Scientists have multiple theories on why this increased risk may have occurred, but the exact reason for this association remains unknown.
What is the biliary tract?
The liver produces bile - a fl uid that carries toxins and waste products out of the body and helps the body digest fats and the fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K.
Bile mostly consists of cholesterol, bile salts, and bilirubin.
Bilirubin, a reddish-yellow substance, forms when hemoglobin from red blood cells breaks down.
Most bilirubin is excreted through bile.
How is spina bifida treated?
Selected medical centers continue to perform fetal surgery for treatment of myelomeningocele through a National Institutes of Health experimental protocol Management of Myelomeningocele Study, or MOMS.
Fetal surgery is performed in utero within the uterus and involves opening the mother's abdomen and uterus and sewing shut the abnormal opening over the developing baby's spinal cord.
Some doctors believe the earlier the defect is corrected, the better the baby's outcome.
Although the procedure cannot restore lost neurological function, it may prevent additional loss from occurring.
What is Fabry Disease?
Fabry disease is caused by the lack of or faulty enzyme needed to metabolize lipids, fat-like substances that include oils, waxes, and fatty acids.
The disease is also called alpha-galactosidase-A deficiency.
A mutation in the gene that controls this enzyme causes insufficient breakdown of lipids, which build up to harmful levels in the eyes, kidneys, autonomic nervous system, and cardiovascular system.
Fabry disease is one of several lipid storage disorders and the only X-linked lipid storage disease.
Since the gene that is altered is carried on a mother's X chromosome, her sons have a 50 percent chance of inheriting the disorder and her daughters have a 50 percent chance of being a carrier.
A milder form is common in females, and occasionally some affected females may have severe manifestations similar to males with the disorder.
Symptoms usually begin during childhood or adolescence and include burning sensations in the hands that gets worse with exercise and hot weather and small, non-cancerous, raised reddish-purple blemishes on the skin.
Some boys will also have eye manifestations, especially cloudiness of the cornea.
Lipid storage may lead to impaired arterial circulation and increased risk of heart attack or stroke.
The heart may also become enlarged and the kidneys may become progressively involved.
Other signs include decreased sweating, fever, and gastrointestinal difficulties.
What is Sotos Syndrome?
Sotos syndrome cerebral gigantism is a rare genetic disorder caused by mutation in the NSD1 gene on chromosome 5.
It is characterized by excessive physical growth during the first few years of life.
Children with Sotos syndrome tend to be large at birth and are often taller, heavier, and have larger heads macrocrania than is normal for their age.
Symptoms of the disorder, which vary among individuals, include a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly protrusive forehead and pointed chin, large hands and feet, hypertelorism an abnormally increased distance between the eyes, and down-slanting eyes.
The disorder is often accompanied by mild mental retardation; delayed motor, cognitive, and social development; hypotonia low muscle tone, and speech impairments.
Clumsiness, an awkward gait, and unusual aggressiveness or irritability may also occur.
Although most cases of Sotos syndrome occur sporadically meaning they are not known to be inherited, familial cases have also been reported.
Why is alcohol dangerous?
Alcohol in the mother's blood passes to the baby through the umbilical cord.
Drinking alcohol during pregnancy can cause miscarriage, stillbirth, and a range of lifelong physical, behavioral, and intellectual disabilities.
These disabilities are known as fetal alcohol spectrum disorders FASDs.
Children with FASDs might have the following characteristics and behaviors:
Is there any treatment for Neurological Sequelae Of Lupus?
There is no cure for lupus.
Treatment is symptomatic.
With a combination of medication, rest, exercise, proper nutrition, and stress management, most individuals with lupus can often achieve remission or reduce their symptom levels.
Medications used in the treatment of lupus may include aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, antimalarials, corticosteroids, and immunosuppressive drugs.
What causes chronic diarrhea in children?
Infections, food allergies and intolerances, and IBD may cause chronic diarrhea along with malabsorption, meaning the small intestine does not absorb nutrients from food.
If children do not absorb enough nutrients from the food they eat, they may become malnourished.
Functional GI disorders do not cause malabsorption.
What are Riding bikes?
Riding bikes is a great way for you to get active.
I've heard that many organic and raw milk producers are creating sanitary and humane conditions for raising animals and producing safe raw milk and raw milk products like cheeses and yogurts.
Does this help reduce milk contamination?
Adherence to good hygienic practices during milking can reduce, but not eliminate, the risk of milk contamination.
The dairy farm environment is a reservoir for illness-causing germs.
No matter what precautions farmers take, and even if their raw milk tests come back negative, they cannot guarantee that their milk, or the products made from their milk, are free of harmful germs.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Coronary Heart Disease?
Angina may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest.
You also may feel it in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back.
Angina pain may even feel like indigestion.
The pain tends to get worse with activity and go away with rest.
Emotional stress also can trigger the pain.
What is Inflammation?
Inflammation is the body's response to injury or infection.
If the Doctor Recommends Surgery, Which Procedure Is Best?
Many surgical techniques can be used to correct the curves of scoliosis.
The main surgical procedure is correction, stabilization, and fusion of the curve.
Fusion is the joining of two or more vertebrae.
There are different ways to straighten the spine and different implants to keep the spine stable after surgery.
Implants are devices that remain in the patient after surgery to keep the spine aligned.
The decision about the type of implant will depend on the cost, the size of the implant, which depends on the size of the patient; the shape of the implant; its safety; and the experience of the surgeon.
Each patient should discuss his or her options with at least two experienced surgeons.
What research is being done for Orthostatic Hypotension?
The NINDS supports research on conditions such as neurogenic orthostatic hypotension aimed at increasing scientific understanding of the condition and finding ways to treat and prevent it.
How is a peptic ulcer treated?
Peptic ulcers are treated based on their cause.
In the case of NSAID-induced ulcers, the presence of H.
pylori also determines the treatment strategy.
What is the intradermal flu vaccine?
'Fluzone Intradermal' was first made available in the 2011-2012 flu season.
The intradermal flu vaccine is a shot that is injected into the skin instead of the muscle.
The intradermal shot uses a much smaller needle than the regular flu shot, and it requires less antigen to be as effective as the regular flu shot.
Antigen is the part of the vaccine that helps your body build up protection against flu viruses.
Where is Most of the sodium we consume?
Most of the sodium we consume is in the form of salt, and the vast majority of sodium we consume is in processed and restaurant foods.
Are there treatments available?
There is no cure for Asperger syndrome and the autism spectrum disorders.
The ideal treatment plan coordinates therapies and interventions that meet the specific needs of individual children.
There is no single best treatment package for all children with AS, but most health care professionals agree that early intervention is best.
How is bleeding in the digestive tract treated?
An interventional radiologist can use an angiogram to inject medications or other materials into blood vessels to stop some types of bleeding.
When infections or ulcers cause the bleeding, health care providers prescribe medications to treat the problem.
When a person has severe acute bleeding or bleeding that does not stop, a surgeon may need to perform a laparoscopy or laparotomy to stop the bleeding.
How is cerebral palsy treated?
Physical therapy, usually begun in the first few years of life or soon after the diagnosis is made, is a cornerstone of CP treatment.
Specific sets of exercises such as resistive, or strength training programs and activities can maintain or improve muscle strength, balance, and motor skills, and prevent contractures.
Special braces called orthotic devices may be used to improve mobility and stretch spastic muscles.
What is the prognosis for Septo-Optic Dysplasia?
The prognosis for individuals with SOD varies according to the presence and severity of symptoms.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Peripheral Arterial Disease?
Many people who have peripheral arterial disease P.A.D.
don't have any signs or symptoms.
Others may have many signs and symptoms.
How Can Pulmonary Embolism Be Prevented?
If you've already had DVT or PE, you can take more steps to prevent new blood clots from forming.
Visit your doctor for regular checkups.
Also, use compression stockings to prevent chronic ongoing swelling in your legs from DVT as your doctor advises.
What Is Bronchoscopy?
During the procedure, your doctor inserts a thin, flexible tube called a bronchoscope into your nose or mouth.
The tube is passed down your throat into your airways.
If you have a breathing tube, the bronchoscope can be passed through the tube to your airways.
You'll be given medicine to make you relaxed and sleepy during the procedure.
What should you expect after Treatment?
People have different responses to treatment.
Some people who have frequent therapeutic phlebotomy may feel very tired.
People who have advanced disease or who are getting intense treatment that weakens them may need help with daily tasks and activities.
Is there any treatment for Coffin Lowry Syndrome?
There is no cure and no standard course of treatment for Coffin-Lowry syndrome.
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive, and may include physical and speech therapy and educational services.
What is the prognosis for Multi-Infarct Dementia?
The prognosis for individuals with MID is generally poor.
The symptoms of the disorder may begin suddenly, often in a step-wise pattern after each small stroke.
Some people with MID may even appear to improve for short periods of time, then decline after having more silent strokes.
The disorder generally takes a downward course with intermittent periods of rapid deterioration.
Death may occur from stroke, heart disease, pneumonia, or other infection.
What is Colonoscopy?
Colonoscopy is a procedure that uses a long, flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end, called a colonoscope or scope, to look inside the rectum and entire colon.
Can antacids or milk help peptic ulcers heal?
Some of the antibiotics used for H.
pylori infection may not work as well if you take antacids.
And while antacids may make ulcer pain go away for a while, they won't kill the H.
pylori germ.
Only antibiotics can do that.
Who Gets Parkinson's Disease?
One clear risk factor for PD is age.
The average age of onset is 60 years, and the incidence rises significantly with increasing age.
However, about 5 to 10 percent of people with PD have early-onset disease that begins before the age of 50.
Some early onset cases are linked to specific gene mutations such as parkin.
People with one or more close relatives who have PD have an increased risk of developing the disease themselves, but the total risk is still about 2 to 5 percent unless the family has a known gene mutation for the disease.
An estimated 15 to 25 percent of people with PD have a known relative with the disease.
What is the prognosis for Peripheral Neuropathy?
In acute neuropathies, such as Guillain-Barre syndrome, symptoms appear suddenly, progress rapidly, and resolve slowly as damaged nerves heal.
In chronic forms, symptoms begin subtly and progress slowly.
Some people may have periods of relief followed by relapse.
Others may reach a plateau stage where symptoms stay the same for many months or years.
Some chronic neuropathies worsen over time, but very few forms prove fatal unless complicated by other diseases.
Occasionally the neuropathy is a symptom of another disorder.
What causes TS?
Although the cause of TS is unknown, current research points to abnormalities in certain brain regions including the basal ganglia, frontal lobes, and cortex, the circuits that interconnect these regions, and the neurotransmitters dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine responsible for communication among nerve cells.
Given the often complex presentation of TS, the cause of the disorder is likely to be equally complex.
How Can Bronchiectasis Be Prevented?
Stay alert to keep children and adults from inhaling small objects such as pieces of toys and food that might stick in a small airway.
If you think you, your child, or someone else has inhaled a small object, seek prompt medical care.
Is there any treatment for Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome?
Generally, intensive care is needed.
The neuroleptic or antipsychotic drug is discontinued, and the fever is treated aggressively.
A muscle relaxant may be prescribed.
Dopaminergic drugs, such as a dopamine agonist, have been reported to be useful.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a painless test that creates pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart and lungs.
What is the role of the thymus gland in myasthenia gravis?
The thymus gland, which lies in the chest area beneath the breastbone, plays an important role in the development of the immune system in early life.
Its cells form a part of the body's normal immune system.
The gland is somewhat large in infants, grows gradually until puberty, and then gets smaller and is replaced by fat with age.
In adults with myasthenia gravis, the thymus gland remains large and is abnormal.
It contains certain clusters of immune cells indicative of lymphoid hyperplasia - a condition usually found only in the spleen and lymph nodes during an active immune response.
Some individuals with myasthenia gravis develop thymomas tumors of the thymus gland.
Thymomas are generally benign, but they can become malignant.
How Can a Heart Attack Be Prevented?
Lowering your risk factors for coronary heart disease CHD can help you prevent a heart attack.
For more information about risk factors, go to Who Is at Risk for a Heart Attack?.
Is HFMD the Same as Foot-and-Mouth Disease?
No.
HFMD is often confused with foot-and-mouth also called hoof-and-mouth disease, which affects cattle, sheep, and swine.
Humans do not get the animal disease, and animals do not get the human disease.
How do I Use Fruits and Vegetables to Help Manage Your Weight?
This is also available as a brochure PDF-244k .
This is part of our Weight Management Research to Practice Series .!
What are the symptoms of PSC?
The main symptoms of PSC are itching, fatigue, and yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes.
An infection in the bile ducts can cause chills and fever.
PSC progresses slowly, so a person can have the disease for years before symptoms develop.
What Are the Risks of Catheter Ablation?
Damage to the heart's electrical system, which may cause you to need a permanent pacemaker.
A pacemaker is a small device that's placed under the skin of your chest or abdomen to help control arrhythmias.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
What should you expect during a Heart Transplant?
Just before heart transplant surgery, the patient will get general anesthesia AN-es-THE-ze-ah.
The term anesthesia refers to a loss of feeling and awareness.
General anesthesia temporarily puts you to sleep.
Why is MMR vaccine given after the first birthday?
Most infants born in the United States will receive passive protection against measles, mumps, and rubella in the form of antibodies from their mothers.
These antibodies can destroy the vaccine virus if they are present when the vaccine is given and, thus, can cause the vaccine to be ineffective.
By 12 months of age, almost all infants have lost this passive protection.
What is Infection?
Infection is a major cause of hospital admission for heart transplant patients.
What research is being done for Fahr's Syndrome?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on neurogenetic disorders such as Fahr's Syndrome.
The goals of this research are to locate and understand the actions of the genes involved in this disorder.
Finding these genes could lead to effective ways to treat and prevent Fahr's Syndrome.
What is Schilder's disease?
Schilder's disease is a rare progressive demyelinating disorder which usually begins in childhood.
Eat More, Weigh Less?
This is also available as a brochure PDF-605k .
This is part of our Weight Management Research to Practice Series .!
What is Youth violence?
Youth violence is a public health crisis in the United States.
What Are the Risks of Using a Holter or Event Monitor?
The sticky patches used to attach the sensors electrodes to your chest have a small risk of skin irritation.
You also may have an allergic reaction to the paste or gel that's sometimes used to attach the patches.
The irritation will go away once the patches are removed.
Why is monitoring mental illness important?
CDC surveillance systems provide several types of mental health information, such as estimates of the prevalence of diagnosed mental illness from self-report or recorded diagnosis, estimates of the prevalence of symptoms associated with mental illness, and estimates of the effect of mental illness on health and well-being.
What is Constipation caused by?
Constipation is caused by stool spending too much time in the colon.
Does the vaccine contain mercury or thimerosal?
No.
The vaccines do not contain thimerosal or any other preservative.
What Are the Symptoms of a Heritable Disorder of Connective Tissue?
The symptoms are different for different disorders.
Some of them cause bone growth problems.
People with bone growth disorders may have brittle bones or bones that are too long or too short.
Some cause people to be unusually tall Marfan syndrome or short chondrodysplasias, osteogenesis imperfecta, or to have head and facial structure malformations Apert syndrome, Pfeiffer syndrome.
In others, joints may be stiff or immobile fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva or FOP.
How are the muscular dystrophies treated?
Drug therapy may be prescribed to delay muscle degeneration.
Corticosteroids such as prednisone can slow the rate of muscle deterioration in Duchenne MD and help children retain strength and prolong independent walking by as much as several years.
However, these medicines have side effects such as weight gain, facial changes, loss of linear height growth, and bone fragility that can be especially troubling in children.
Immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporine and azathioprine can delay some damage to dying muscle cells.
Drugs that may provide short-term relief from myotonia muscle spasms and weakness include mexiletine; phenytoin; baclofen, which blocks signals sent from the spinal cord to contract the muscles; dantrolene, which interferes with the process of muscle contraction; and quinine.
Drugs for myotonia may not be effective in myotonic MD but work well for myotonia congenita, a genetic neuromuscular disorder characterized by the slow relaxation of the muscles.
Respiratory infections may be treated with antibiotics.
What are Generalized Gangliosidoses?
The GM1 gangliosidoses are caused by a deficiency of the enzyme beta-galactosidase.
Signs of early infantile GM1 gangliodisosis the most severe subtype, with onset shortly after birth may include neurodegeneration, seizures, liver and spleen enlargement, coarsening of facial features, skeletal irregularities, joint stiffness, distended abdomen, muscle weakness, exaggerated startle response, and problems with gait.
About half of affected persons develop cherry-red spots in the eye.
Children may be deaf and blind by age 1.
Onset of late infantile GM1 gangliosidosisis typically between ages 1 and 3 years.
Signs include ataxia, seizures, dementia, and difficulties with speech.
Adult GM1 gangliosidosis strikes between ages 3 and 30, with symptoms that include muscle atrophy, corneal clouding in some patients, and dystonia.
Non-cancerous skin blemishes may develop on the lower part of the trunk of the body.
Adult GM1 is usually less severe and progresses more slowly than other forms of the disorder.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a metabolic bone disease characterized by low bone mass, which makes bones fragile and susceptible to fracture.
Osteoporosis is known as a silent disease because symptoms and pain do not appear until a fracture occurs.
Without prevention or treatment, osteoporosis can progress painlessly until a bone breaks, typically in the hip, spine, or wrist.
A hip fracture can limit mobility and lead to a loss of independence, and vertebral fractures can result in a loss of height, stooped posture, and chronic pain.
What Are Holter and Event Monitors?
Holter and event monitors also are used to detect silent myocardial ischemia is-KE-me-ah.
In this condition, not enough oxygen-rich blood reaches the heart muscle.
Silent means that no symptoms occur.
How is CRPS diagnosed?
Testing also may be used to help rule out other conditions, such as arthritis syndromes, Lyme disease, generalized muscle diseases, a clotted vein, or small nerve fiber polyneuropathies such as from diabetes, because these require different treatment.
The distinguishing feature of CRPS is usually a history of earlier injury to the affected area, as most of these other conditions are not triggered by injury.
Individuals without a history of injury should be carefully examined to make sure that another treatable diagnosis is not missed.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Insomnia?
Insomnia also can affect your daily activities and cause serious problems.
For example, you may feel drowsy while driving.
Driver sleepiness not related to alcohol is responsible for almost 20 percent of all serious car crash injuries.
Research also shows that insomnia raises older women's risk of falling.
What Are Palpitations?
Palpitations pal-pi-TA-shuns are feelings that your heart is skipping a beat, fluttering, or beating too hard or too fast.
You may have these feelings in your chest, throat, or neck.
They can occur during activity or even when you're sitting still or lying down.
What is A sleep specialist?
A sleep specialist is a doctor who diagnoses and treats sleep problems.
What is Hematocrit?
Hematocrit is a measure of how much space red blood cells take up in your blood.
What are the symptoms of a peptic ulcer?
Abdominal discomfort is the most common symptom of both duodenal and gastric ulcers.
Felt anywhere between the navel and the breastbone, this discomfort usually.
What is upper gastrointestinal GI endoscopy?
Upper GI endoscopy is a procedure that uses a lighted, flexible endoscope to see and perform procedures inside the upper GI tract.
The upper GI tract includes the esophagus, stomach, and duodenum - the first part of the small intestine.
What is Leukodystrophy?
Leukodystrophy refers to progressive degeneration of the white matter of the brain due to imperfect growth or development of the myelin sheath, the fatty covering that acts as an insulator around nerve fiber.
Myelin, which lends its color to the white matter of the brain, is a complex substance made up of at least ten different chemicals.
The leukodystrophies are a group of disorders that are caused by genetic defects in how myelin produces or metabolizes these chemicals.
Each of the leukodystrophies is the result of a defect in the gene that controls one and only one of the chemicals.
Specific leukodystrophies include metachromatic leukodystrophy, Krabbe disease, adrenoleukodystrophy, Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease, Canavan disease, Childhood Ataxia with Central Nervous System Hypomyelination or CACH also known as Vanishing White Matter Disease, Alexander disease, Refsum disease, and cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis.
The most common symptom of a leukodystrophy disease is a gradual decline in an infant or child who previously appeared well.
Progressive loss may appear in body tone, movements, gait, speech, ability to eat, vision, hearing, and behavior.
There is often a slowdown in mental and physical development.
Symptoms vary according to the specific type of leukodystrophy, and may be difficult to recognize in the early stages of the disease.
Are you worried about a loved one's risk of falling?
Use these tips to start a conversation about preventing falls.
Is there any treatment for Multiple System Atrophy with Orthostatic Hypotension?
There is no cure for multiple system atrophy with orthostatic hypotension.
Treatment is aimed at controlling symptoms.
Anti-Parkinson medication such as Sinemet may improve the general sense of well-being.
Medications to elevate blood pressure while standing are often used, but may cause high blood pressure when lying down.
Individuals should sleep with the head of the bed elevated.
An artificial feeding tube or breathing tube may be required for problems with swallowing and breathing.
What is Depression?
Depression is a common feature of MS.
How is it Treated?
Recent studies have shown that steroids such as the steroid prednisone -- used to reduce inflammation and swelling --are effective in treating Bell's palsy.
Other drugs such as acyclovir -- used to fight viral herpes infections -- may also have some benefit in shortening the course of the disease.
Analgesics such as aspirin, acetaminophen, or ibuprofen may relieve pain.
Because of possible drug interactions, individuals taking prescription medicines should always talk to their doctors before taking any over-the-counter drugs.
What are Check Up On Your Bones?
Check Up On Your Bones is an interactive bone health checkup for people of all ages.
What is Targeted therapy?
Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells.
What is Glossopharyngeal Neuralgia?
Glossopharyngeal neuralgia GN is a rare pain syndrome that affects the glossopharyngeal nerve the ninth cranial nerve that lies deep within the neck and causes sharp, stabbing pulses of pain in the back of the throat and tongue, the tonsils, and the middle ear.
The excruciating pain of GN can last for a few seconds to a few minutes, and may return multiple times in a day or once every few weeks.
Many individuals with GN relate the attacks of pain to specific trigger factors such as swallowing, drinking cold liquids, sneezing, coughing, talking, clearing the throat, and touching the gums or inside the mouth.
GN can be caused by compression of the glossopharyngeal nerve, but in some cases, no cause is evident.
Like trigeminal neuralgia, it is associated with multiple sclerosis.
GN primarily affects the elderly.
What research is being done for Syncope?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to syncope in laboratories at the NIH and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent and treat syncope.
How is PSP different from Parkinson's disease?
Both PSP and Parkinson's disease cause stiffness, movement difficulties, and clumsiness.
However, people with PSP usually stand straight or occasionally even tilt their heads backward and tend to fall backward, while those with Parkinson's disease usually bend forward.
Problems with speech and swallowing are much more common and severe in PSP than in Parkinson's disease, and tend to show up earlier in the course of the disease.
Eye movements are abnormal in PSP but close to normal in Parkinson's disease.
Both diseases share other features: onset in late middle age, bradykinesia slow movement, and rigidity of muscles.
Tremor, very common in individuals with Parkinson's disease, is rare in PSP.
Although individuals with Parkinson's disease markedly benefit from the drug levodopa, people with PSP respond poorly and only transiently to this drug.
What are the signs of constipation in children?
stool in the child's underwear.
Delaying a bowel movement can result in a large mass of stool in the rectum, called a fecal impaction.
Stool builds up behind the impaction and may unexpectedly leak, soiling a child's underwear.
Parents often mistake this soiling as a sign of diarrhea.
What are Dystonias?
The dystonias are movement disorders in which sustained muscle contractions cause twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures.
The movements, which are involuntary and sometimes painful, may affect a single muscle; a group of muscles such as those in the arms, legs, or neck; or the entire body.
Early symptoms may include deterioration in handwriting, foot cramps, or a dragging foot after running or walking some distance.
Other possible symptoms are tremor and voice or speech difficulties.
About half the cases of dystonia have no connection to disease or injury and are called primary or idiopathic dystonia.
Of the primary dystonias, many cases appear to be inherited.
Dystonias can also be symptoms of other diseases, some of which may be hereditary.
In some individuals, symptoms of a dystonia appear in childhood.
For other individuals, the symptoms emerge in late adolescence or early adulthood.
What Are the Risks of a Ventricular Assist Device?
As with any surgery involving the heart, complications can sometimes be fatal.
However, survival rates for VAD surgery have improved over the years.
Higher functioning children with prenatal alcohol exposure: Is there a specific neurocognitive profile?
Child Neuropsychology: A Journal on Normal and Abnormal Development in Childhood and Adolescence; 2013; 196:561-578
How many swine flu viruses are there?
Like influenza viruses in humans and other animals, swine flu viruses change constantly.
Pigs can be infected by avian influenza and human influenza viruses as well as swine influenza viruses.
When influenza viruses from different species infect pigs, the viruses can reassort i.e.
swap genes and new viruses that are a mix of swine, human and/or avian influenza viruses can emerge.
Over the years, different variations of swine flu viruses have emerged.
At this time, there are three main influenza type A virus subtypes that have been isolated in pigs in the United States: H1N1, H1N2, and H3N2.
What is Chickenpox?
Chickenpox is a very contagious disease.
What is An infantile spasm IS?
An infantile spasm IS is a specific type of seizure seen in an epilepsy syndrome of infancy and childhood known as West Syndrome.
What Can Women Do?
See a doctor right away within 3 days if you have a single experience of sex without a condom with someone who is or may be HIV-positive.
Starting medicine immediately known as post-exposure prophylaxis, or PEP and taking it for about a month reduces the chance of getting HIV.
What is liver transplantation?
Liver transplantation is surgery to remove a diseased or injured liver and replace it with a healthy one from another person, called a donor.
Many people have had liver transplants and now lead normal lives.
What is the prognosis for Febrile Seizures?
The vast majority of febrile seizures are short and harmless.
There is no evidence that short febrile seizures cause brain damage.
Certain children who have febrile seizures face an increased risk of developing epilepsy.
These children include those who have cerebral palsy, delayed development, or other neurological abnormalities, or who have febrile seizures that are lengthy or affect only one part of the body.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of an Arrhythmia?
Many arrhythmias cause no signs or symptoms.
When signs or symptoms are present, the most common ones are:
What is the prognosis for Behcet's Disease?
Behcet's disease is a lifelong disorder that comes and goes.
Permanent remission of symptoms has not been reported.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a painless test that creates pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels.
Depression among women, what you should know?
There are effective treatments for depression that may include medication or talking with a trained therapist.
The best way to deal with depression is to see a doctor or a counselor.
The earlier you seek help, the better you may do.
4.
Which of the following are safe to drink during pregnancy?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33559111.xml:
How Is Back Pain Diagnosed?
During the medical history, your doctor will ask questions about the nature of your pain and about any health problems you and close family members have or have had.
Questions might include the following:
What research is being done for Leukodystrophy?
The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders, including the leukodystrophies.
The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them.
What is Foraminotomy?
Foraminotomy is an operation that 'cleans out' or enlarges the bony hole foramen where a nerve root exits the spinal canal.
What Is Angina?
CHD is the most common type of heart disease in adults.
It occurs if a waxy substance called plaque plak builds up on the inner walls of your coronary arteries.
These arteries carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart.
What causes diarrhea?
Acute diarrhea is usually caused by a bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection.
Chronic diarrhea is usually related to a functional disorder such as irritable bowel syndrome or an intestinal disease such as Crohn's disease.
What is Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis?
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ADEM is characterized by a brief but widespread attack of inflammation in the brain and spinal cord that damages myelin - the protective covering of nerve fibers.
ADEM often follows viral or bacterial infections, or less often, vaccination for measles, mumps, or rubella.
The symptoms of ADEM appear rapidly, beginning with encephalitis-like symptoms such as fever, fatigue, headache, nausea and vomiting, and in the most severe cases, seizures and coma.
ADEM typically damages white matter brain tissue that takes its name from the white color of myelin, leading to neurological symptoms such as visual loss due to inflammation of the optic nerve in one or both eyes, weakness even to the point of paralysis, and difficulty coordinating voluntary muscle movements such as those used in walking.
ADEM is sometimes misdiagnosed as a severe first attack of multiple sclerosis MS, since the symptoms and the appearance of the white matter injury on brain imaging may be similar.
However, ADEM has several features which differentiate it from MS.
First, unlike MS patients, persons with ADEM will have rapid onset of fever, a history of recent infection or immunization, and some degree of impairment of consciousness, perhaps even coma; these features are not typically seen in MS.
Children are more likely than adults to have ADEM, whereas MS is a rare diagnosis in children.
In addition, ADEM usually consists of a single episode or attack of widespread myelin damage, while MS features many attacks over the course of time.
Doctors will often use imaging techniques, such as MRI magnetic resonance imaging, to search for old and new lesions areas of damage on the brain.
The presence of older brain lesions on MRI suggest that the condition may be MS rather than ADEM, since MS can cause brain lesions before symptoms become obvious.
In rare situations, a brain biopsy may be necessary to differentiate between ADEM and some other diseases that involve inflammation and damage to myelin.
What is the prognosis for Sturge-Weber Syndrome?
Although it is possible for the birthmark and atrophy in the cerebral cortex to be present without symptoms, most infants will develop convulsive seizures during their first year of life.
There is a greater likelihood of intellectual impairment when seizures start before the age of 2 and are resistant to treatment.
Prognosis is worst in the minority of children who have both sides of the brain affected by the blood vessel abnormalities.
What is Coma?
A coma, sometimes also called persistent vegetative state, is a profound or deep state of unconsciousness.
Persistent vegetative state is not brain-death.
An individual in a state of coma is alive but unable to move or respond to his or her environment.
Coma may occur as a complication of an underlying illness, or as a result of injuries, such as head trauma.
Individuals in such a state have lost their thinking abilities and awareness of their surroundings, but retain non-cognitive function and normal sleep patterns.
Even though those in a persistent vegetative state lose their higher brain functions, other key functions such as breathing and circulation remain relatively intact.
Spontaneous movements may occur, and the eyes may open in response to external stimuli.
Individuals may even occasionally grimace, cry, or laugh.
Although individuals in a persistent vegetative state may appear somewhat normal, they do not speak and they are unable to respond to commands.
Why is folic acid so important?
Folic acid is very important because it can help prevent some major birth defects of the baby's brain and spine anencephaly and spina bifida.
How Is Pulmonary Embolism Treated?
Treatment may include medicines to thin the blood and slow its ability to clot.
If your symptoms are life threatening, your doctor may give you medicine to quickly dissolve the clot.
Rarely, your doctor may use surgery or another procedure to remove the clot.
What Are the Risks of Coronary Angiography?
The risk of complications is higher in people who are older and in those who have certain diseases or conditions such as chronic kidney disease and diabetes.
What Causes Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency?
In AAT deficiency, the AAT proteins made in the liver aren't the right shape.
Thus, they get stuck in the liver cells.
The proteins can't get to the organs in the body that they protect, such as the lungs.
Without the AAT proteins protecting the organs, diseases can develop.
What is Sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a less common complication of overweight for children and adolescents.
What is the flu?
The flu is caused by viruses that infect your nose, throat, and lungs.
It's easily spread from person to person.
When can I go for a wellness visit?
You don't need to have a 'Welcome to Medicare' visit before getting a yearly wellness visit.
If you choose to get the 'Welcome to Medicare' Preventive Visit during the first 12 months you have Medicare Part B, you'll have to wait 12 months before you can get your first yearly wellness visit.
What is Angelman Syndrome?
Angelman syndrome is a genetic disorder that causes developmental delay and neurological problems.
The physician Harry Angelman first delineated the syndrome in 1965, when he described several children in his practice as having flat heads, jerky movements, protruding tongues, and bouts of laughter.
Infants with Angelman syndrome appear normal at birth, but often have feeding problems in the first months of life and exhibit noticeable developmental delays by 6 to 12 months.
Seizures often begin between 2 and 3 years of age.
Speech impairment is pronounced, with little to no use of words.
Individuals with this syndrome often display hyperactivity, small head size, sleep disorders, and movement and balance disorders that can cause severe functional deficits.
Angelman syndrome results from absence of a functional copy of the UBE3A gene inherited from the mother.
Is there any treatment for Anencephaly?
There is no cure or standard treatment for anencephaly.
Treatment is supportive.
What is Celiac disease?
Celiac disease is a digestive disease that damages the small intestine and interferes with absorption of nutrients from food.
What Are the Benefits of the DASH Eating Plan?
Results from the DASH research showed that following a DASH plan containing 2,300 milligrams mg of sodium per day lowered blood pressure.
Following a DASH plan containing 1,500 mg of sodium lowered blood pressure even more systolic blood pressure was lowered by about 7 to 12 mmHg.
5.
What is the proper way to breathe during strength training?
However, the most important thing is simply to breathe regularly.
Most people assume that they are automatically breathing when in fact they are actually holding their breath.
Take a moment to focus on your breathing during your next strength training session and during other strenuous activities such as climbing up the stairs.
You may be surprised to find that you are actually holding your breath.
How Is Sarcoidosis Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose sarcoidosis based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
He or she will look for granulomas inflamed lumps in your organs.
Your doctor also will try to rule out other possible causes of your symptoms.
Who Is at Risk for Bronchiectasis?
Disorders that affect cilia function, such as primary ciliary dyskinesia.
Cilia are small, hair-like structures that line your airways.
They help clear mucus a slimy substance out of your airways.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Coronary Microvascular Disease?
Angina also is a common symptom of CHD.
However, the angina that occurs in coronary MVD may differ from the typical angina that occurs in CHD.
In coronary MVD, the chest pain usually lasts longer than 10 minutes, and it can last longer than 30 minutes.
Typical angina is more common in women older than 65.
What is the prognosis for Todd's Paralysis?
Todd's paralysis is an indication that an individual has had an epileptic seizure.
The outcome depends on the effects of the seizure and the subsequent treatment of the epilepsy.
Is there any treatment for Lipoid Proteinosis?
There is no cure for LP.
Some doctors have had success treating the skin eruptions with oral steroid drugs and oral dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO.
Carbon dioxide laser surgery of thickened vocal cords and eyelid bumps has proved helpful in some studies.
Dermabrasion may improve the appearance of the skin lesions.
Seizures, if present, may be treated with anticonvulsants.
What is An arrhythmia?
An arrhythmia is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat.
How Is Rh Incompatibility Diagnosed?
Rh incompatibility is diagnosed with blood tests.
To find out whether a baby is developing hemolytic anemia and how serious it is, doctors may use more advanced tests, such as ultrasound.
Can cerebral aneurysms be prevented?
There are no known ways to prevent a cerebral aneurysm from forming.
People with a diagnosed brain aneurysm should carefully control high blood pressure, stop smoking, and avoid cocaine use or other stimulant drugs.
They should also consult with a doctor about the benefits and risks of taking aspirin or other drugs that thin the blood.
Women should check with their doctors about the use of oral contraceptives.
What research is being done for Pituitary Tumors?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to brain tumors, including pituitary tumors, in their laboratories at the NIH and also support research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure pituitary tumors.
Who Is at Risk for Coronary Heart Disease?
In the United States, coronary heart disease CHD is the #1 cause of death for both men and women.
Each year, more than 400,000 Americans die from CHD.
What does an osteoporosis evaluation involve?
One thing your doctor will do is ask about your medical history and lifestyle to determine whether you have risk factors for osteoporosis.
Some of the factors that increase the risk of developing osteoporosis include personal or family history of fractures; low levels of the hormone estrogen or testosterone; and the use of certain medications, such as glucocorticoids or anti-seizure medications, that may contribute to bone fragility.
Your doctor also may want to test your blood or urine and may suggest that you have a bone mineral density test.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a silent disease until a fracture occurs.
Osteoporosis can often be prevented.
However, if undetected, it can worsen over many years without symptoms.
It has been called 'a pediatric disease with geriatric consequences,' because building healthy bones in one's youth is important to help prevent osteoporosis and broken bones later in life.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from your mouth to your anus - the opening where stool leaves your body.
Is there any treatment for Neurosarcoidosis?
There is no agreed upon standard of treatment for neurosarcoidosis.
Doctors generally recommend corticosteroid therapy as first-line therapy for individuals with the condition.
Additional treatment with immunomodulatory drugs such as hydroxychloroquine, pentoxyfilline, thalidomide, and infliximab, and immunosuppressive drugs such as methotrexate, azathioprine, cyclosporin, and cyclophosphamide, have benefited some individuals.
While the use of corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive drugs is effective, these medications also have undesirable side effects.
Side effects and experience with certain drugs may play a role in medication choices.
Who Is at Risk for Marfan Syndrome?
People at highest risk for Marfan syndrome are those who have a family history of the condition.
If you have Marfan syndrome, you have a 50 percent chance of passing the altered gene to each of your children.
What research is being done for Machado-Joseph?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS supports research on MJD and other related neurodegenerative diseases in an effort to learn how to better treat, prevent, and even cure these diseases.
Ongoing research includes efforts to better understand the genetic, molecular, and cellular mechanisms that underlie repeat expansion diseases related to MJD.
What research is being done for Inflammatory?
NIH-funded researchers are also studying childhood-onset polymyositis and dermatomyositis to learn more about their causes, immune system changes throughout the course of the disease, and associated medical problems.
Scientists are studying inflammation and how skeletal muscle degeneration leads to weakness and muscle wasting.
NIEHS researchers are also studying immunogenetic and environmental risk factors for these diseases.
Other research hopes to determine whether the drugs infliximab, which blocks a protein that is associated with harmful inflammation, and rituximab, a monoclonal antibody directed against B cells which help protect the body from infection, is safe and effective in treating dermatomyositis and polymyositis.
Who is at risk for hepatitis B?
people who received a transfusion of blood or blood products before 1987, when better tests to screen blood donors were developed.
What causes cirrhosis?
The list below shows common causes of cirrhosis in the United States.
While chronic hepatitis C and alcohol-related liver disease are the most common causes of cirrhosis, the incidence of cirrhosis caused by nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is rising due to increasing rates of obesity.
What does You Need to Know about ADHD?
ADHD is one of the most common neurobehavioral disorders of childhood and often lasts into adulthood.
About 1 in 10 children in the United States, 4-17 years of age, have been diagnosed with ADHD, based on parent report.
Costs associated with childhood ADHD have been conservatively estimated at $38 billion or more, annually.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC is working to understand how this disorder affects children and families, so that more can be done for treatment and prevention.
What is Working with the team?
Working with the team is an important part of cardiac rehab.
What Is Cough?
A cough is a natural reflex that protects your lungs.
Coughing helps clear your airways of lung irritants, such as smoke and mucus a slimy substance.
This helps prevent infections.
A cough also can be a symptom of a medical problem.
Were you exposed to rabies?
In the United States, postexposure prophylaxis consists of a regimen of one dose of immune globulin and four doses of rabies vaccine over a 14-day period.
Rabies immune globulin and the first dose of rabies vaccine should be given by your health care provider as soon as possible after exposure.
Additional doses or rabies vaccine should be given on days 3, 7, and 14 after the first vaccination.
Current vaccines are relatively painless and are given in your arm, like a flu or tetanus vaccine.
What is Multifocal Motor Neuropathy?
Multifocal motor neuropathy is a progressive muscle disorder characterized by muscle weakness in the hands, with differences from one side of the body to the other in the specific muscles involved.
It affects men much more than women.
Symptoms also include muscle wasting, cramping, and involuntary contractions or twitching of the leg muscles.
The disorder is sometimes mistaken for amyotrophic laterial sclerosis ALS, or Lou Gehrig's disease but unlike ALS, it is treatable.
An early and accurate diagnosis allows patients to recover quickly.
What causes IBS in children?
Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth SIBO.
Normally, few bacteria live in the small intestine.
SIBO is an increase in the number of bacteria or a change in the type of bacteria in the small intestine.
These bacteria can produce excess gas and may also cause diarrhea and weight loss.
Some researchers believe that SIBO may lead to IBS, and some studies have shown antibiotics to be effective in treating IBS.
However, the studies were weak and more research is needed to show a link between SIBO and IBS.
What isH.
pylori?
H.
pylori is a type of bacteria - a germ that may cause infection.
H.
pylori infection is common, particularly in developing countries, and often begins in childhood.
Symptoms usually don't occur until adulthood, although most people never have any symptoms.
H.
pylori bacteria are found in roughly half of people who develop peptic ulcers.
How Is Hemolytic Anemia Treated?
People who have mild hemolytic anemia may not need treatment, as long as the condition doesn't worsen.
People who have severe hemolytic anemia usually need ongoing treatment.
Severe hemolytic anemia can be fatal if it's not properly treated.
What is Million Hearts?
Million Hearts is a national initiative to prevent 1 million heart attacks and strokes by 2017.
Is there any treatment for Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome?
Treatment involves replacement of thiamine and providing proper nutrition and hydration.
In some cases, drug therapy is also recommended.
What should you expect during Echocardiography?
Echocardiography echo is painless; the test usually takes less than an hour to do.
For some types of echo, your doctor will need to inject saline or a special dye into one of your veins.
The substance makes your heart show up more clearly on the echo pictures.
What research is being done for Rett?
Scientists know that lack of a properly functioning MeCP2 protein disturbs the function of mature brain cells but they do not know the exact mechanisms by which this happens.
Investigators are trying to find other genetic switches that operate in a similar way to the MeCP2 protein.
Once they discover how the protein works and locate similar switches, they may devise therapies that can substitute for the malfunctioning switch.
Another outcome might involve manipulating other biochemical pathways to compensate for the malfunctioning MECP2 gene, thereby preventing progression of the disorder.
Gene therapy to achieve regulated expression of a normal MECP2 gene is also under study in animal models.
What is Imiquimod?
Imiquimod is an agonist for the toll-like receptor 7 and/or 8, inducing a helper T-cell cytokine cascade and interferon production.
What Are Its Symptoms and Signs?
The most common symptom of all types of juvenile arthritis is persistent joint swelling, pain, and stiffness that is typically worse in the morning or after a nap.
The pain may limit movement of the affected joint, although many children, especially younger ones, will not complain of pain.
Juvenile arthritis commonly affects the knees and the joints in the hands and feet.
One of the earliest signs of juvenile arthritis may be limping in the morning because of an affected knee.
Besides joint symptoms, children with systemic juvenile arthritis have a high fever and a skin rash.
The rash and fever may appear and disappear very quickly.
Systemic arthritis also may cause the lymph nodes located in the neck and other parts of the body to swell.
In some cases fewer than half, internal organs including the heart and very rarely the lungs, may be involved.
How Is High Blood Cholesterol Diagnosed?
Testing for total and HDL cholesterol does not require fasting.
If your total cholesterol is 200 mg/dL or more, or if your HDL cholesterol is less than 40 mg/dL, your doctor will likely recommend that you have a lipoprotein panel.
Cholesterol is measured as milligrams mg of cholesterol per deciliter dL of blood..
How are peptic ulcers treated?
If you have peptic ulcers, they can be cured.
Depending on what caused your ulcers, your doctor may prescribe one or more of the following medicines:
What is Hormone therapy?
Hormone therapy is a cancer treatment that removes hormones or blocks their action and stops cancer cells from growing.
Why is progression important?
To take full advantage of the many benefits of strength training, it's important to progress, or consistently advance the intensity of your workout by challenging your muscles with heavier weights.
This continuous challenge allows your muscles to grow strong and stay strong.
Progressing will boost your feelings of independence and will help ensure that you live well into old age without the fear of falling.
It will also give you a tremendous sense of pride and accomplishment.
What research is being done for Incontinentia Pigmenti?
Researchers have begun to use genetic linkage studies to map the location of genes associated with the neurocutaneous disorders.
Research supported by the NINDS includes studies to understand how the brain and nervous system normally develop and function and how they are affected by genetic mutations.
These studies contribute to a greater understanding of gene-linked disorders such as IP, and have the potential to open promising new avenues of treatment.
What research is being done for Thyrotoxic Myopathy?
The NINDS supports a broad range of research on neuromuscular disorders such as thyrotoxic myopathy.
Much of this research is aimed at learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.
What causes Cerebral palsy?
Cerebral palsy is caused by abnormal development of part of the brain or by damage to parts of the brain that control movement.
What research is being done for Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's Disease?
Researchers are continuing to study DBS and to develop ways of improving it.
A two-part study funded by the NINDS and the Department of Veterans Affairs first compared bilateral DBS to best medical therapy, including medication adjustment and physical therapy.
Bilateral DBS showed overall superiority to best medical therapy at improving motor symptoms and quality of life.
The second part of the study, involving nearly 300 patients, compared subthalamic nucleus STN DBS to globus pallidus interna GPI DBS.
The two groups reported similar improvements in motor control and quality of life in scores on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale.
On a variety of neuropsychological tests, there were no significant differences between the two groups.
However, the STN DBS group experienced a greater decline on a test of visuomotor processing speed, which measures how quickly someone thinks and acts on information.
Also, the STN DBS group had slight worsening on a standard assessment of depression, while the GPI DBS group had slight improvement on the same test.
The importance of these two differences is not clear, and will be scrutinized in follow-up research.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Overweight and Obesity?
Weight gain usually happens over time.
Most people know when they've gained weight.
Some of the signs of overweight and obesity include:
How Are Growth Plate Fractures Diagnosed?
The doctor will begin the diagnostic process by asking about the injury and how it occurred and by examining the child.
The doctor will then use x rays to determine if there is a fracture, and if so, the type of fracture.
Often the doctor will x ray not only the injured limb but the opposite limb as well.
Because growth plates have not yet hardened into solid bone, neither the structures themselves nor injuries to them show up on x rays.
Instead, growth plates appear as gaps between the shaft of a long bone, called the metaphysis, and the end of the bone, called the epiphysis.
By comparing x rays of the injured limb to those of the noninjured limb, doctors can look for differences that indicate an injury.
What Is Diabetes?
Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas, an organ located behind the stomach.
It is responsible for moving glucose from the bloodstream into the cells to provide energy needed for daily life.
In people with diabetes, the body produces too little or no insulin or it does not respond properly to the insulin that is produced.
As a result, glucose builds up in the blood and may overflow into the urine where it is excreted from the body.
Therefore, the cells lose their main source of energy.
What is Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis is a common joint problem of the knees, hips, and lower back.
What is Tardive Dyskinesia?
Tardive dyskinesia is a neurological syndrome caused by the long-term use of neuroleptic drugs.
Neuroleptic drugs are generally prescribed for psychiatric disorders, as well as for some gastrointestinal and neurological disorders.
Tardive dyskinesia is characterized by repetitive, involuntary, purposeless movements.
Features of the disorder may include grimacing, tongue protrusion, lip smacking, puckering and pursing, and rapid eye blinking.
Rapid movements of the arms, legs, and trunk may also occur.
Involuntary movements of the fingers may be present.
How Can the Family Help a Child Live Well With Juvenile Arthritis?
Learn as much as you can about your child's disease and its treatment.
The resources listed at the end of this publication can help.
Many treatment options are available, and because juvenile arthritis is different in each child, what works for one may not work for another.
If the medications that the doctor prescribes do not relieve symptoms or if they cause unpleasant side effects, you and your child should discuss other choices with the doctor.
A person with juvenile arthritis can be more active when symptoms are controlled.
Is colon cancer a concern with UC?
According to the U.S.
Preventive Services Task Force guidelines for colon cancer screening, people who have had IBD throughout the colon for at least 8 years and those who have had IBD in only the left side of the colon for 12 to 15 years should have a colonoscopy with biopsies every 1 to 2 years to check for dysplasia.
Such screening has not been proven to reduce the risk of colon cancer, but it may help identify cancer early and improve prognosis.
These guidelines were produced by an independent expert panel and endorsed by numerous organizations, including the American Cancer Society, the American College of Gastroenterology, the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons, and the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America.
What is Blood pressure?
Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps blood.
Why is a liver biopsy performed?
diagnose liver diseases that cannot be diagnosed with blood or imaging tests.
What is cholesterol?
If you have too much cholesterol in your body, it can build up inside your blood vessels and make it hard for blood to flow through them.
Over time, this can lead to heart disease and heart attack.
What is the difference between acute and chronic back pain?
Acute back pain is pain that lasts from a few days to a few weeks.
It's often caused by an accident, a fall, or lifting something too heavy.
Acute back pain usually gets better without any treatment.
What is Cerebral Cavernous Malformation?
A cerebral cavernous malformation CCM is a collection of small blood vessels capillaries in the central nervous system CNS that is enlarged and irregular in structure.
In CCM, the walls of the capillaries are thinner than normal, less elastic, and prone to leaking.
Cavernous malformations can occur anywhere in the body, but usually only produce symptoms when they are found in the brain and spinal cord.
Some people with CCM - experts estimate 25 percent -- will never experience any related medical problems.
Others will have serious symptoms such as seizures most commonly, headaches, paralysis, hearing or vision changes, and bleeding in the brain cerebral hemorrhage.
There are familial inherited and sporadic occurring for no clear reason cases of CCM.
Researchers have discovered three different genes associated with CCM.
Studies are currently underway to understand the relationship between the mutations of each of these genes and their corresponding symptoms.
What is Echocardiography echo?
Echocardiography echo is a painless test that uses sound waves to create pictures of your heart.
What is Your family's health history?
Your family's health history is an important part of your baby's health record.
What Does a Chest CT Scan Show?
Find out whether you have a lung problem, such as a tumor, excess fluid around the lungs, or a pulmonary embolism a blood clot in the lungs.
The test also is used to check for other conditions, such as tuberculosis, emphysema, and pneumonia.
What causes GBS?
Many things can cause GBS; about two-thirds of people who develop GBS symptoms do so several days or weeks after they have been sick with diarrhea or a respiratory illness.
Infection with the bacterium Campylobacter jejuni is one of the most common risk factors for GBS.
People also can develop GBS after having the flu or other infections such as cytomegalovirus and Epstein Barr virus.
On very rare occasions, they may develop GBS in the days or weeks after getting a vaccination.
How does MRSA Spread in Healthcare Setting?
MRSA is mainly spread to other patients through human hands, especially healthcare personnel hands.
Hands may become contaminated with MRSA bacteria following contact with MRSA-infected or colonized patients.
If appropriate hand hygiene, such as washing with soap and water or using an alcohol-based hand rub, is not performed, the bacteria can be spread when the healthcare provider touches other patients.
What is cervical cancer?
Abnormal cells in the cervix can turn into cancer if they are not found early and treated.
Cervical cancer is more common in women over age 30.
What is Multi-infarct dementia MID?
Multi-infarct dementia MID is a common cause of memory loss in the elderly.
What Is Atherosclerosis?
Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood.
Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries.
This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body.
How Is Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Treated?
Doctors may prescribe medicines, oxygen therapy, pulmonary rehabilitation PR, and lung transplant to treat idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF.
What causes Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease?
The gene mutations in CMT disease are usually inherited.
Each of us normally possesses two copies of every gene, one inherited from each parent.
Some forms of CMT are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, which means that only one copy of the abnormal gene is needed to cause the disease.
Other forms of CMT are inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion, which means that both copies of the abnormal gene must be present to cause the disease.
Still other forms of CMT are inherited in an X-linked fashion, which means that the abnormal gene is located on the X chromosome.
The X and Y chromosomes determine an individual's sex.
Individuals with two X chromosomes are female and individuals with one X and one Y chromosome are male.
What is Asthma?
Asthma is a lung disease that is caused by chronic inflammation of the airways.
What is a fistula?
A fistula is an abnormal passage, or tunnel, between two organs - called an internal fistula - or between an organ and the outside of the body - called an external fistula.
In the lower GI tract, both internal and external fistulas can occur.
Fistulas can develop during gestation or at any age after birth.
Fistulas that develop during gestation are more common in boys than girls.
How Is Peripheral Arterial Disease Diagnosed?
P.A.D.
often is diagnosed after symptoms are reported.
A correct diagnosis is important because people who have P.A.D.
are at higher risk for coronary heart disease CHD, heart attack, stroke, and transient ischemic attack mini-stroke.
If you have P.A.D., your doctor also may want to check for signs of these diseases and conditions.
What is the prognosis for Huntington's Disease?
At this time, there is no way to stop or reverse the course of HD.
Now that the HD gene has been located, investigators are continuing to study the HD gene with an eye toward understanding how it causes disease in the human body.
What does Breast Cancer Survivor Need to Know about Osteoporosi?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33578129.xml:
What is The 'canine influenza virus'?
The 'canine influenza virus' is an influenza A H3N8 influenza virus not a human influenza virus that was originally an equine horse influenza virus.
What research is being done for Pervasive Developmental Disorders?
The NINDS conducts and supports research on developmental disabilities, including PDD.
Much of this research focuses on understanding the neurological basis of PDD and on developing techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure this and similar disorders.
What is Friedreich's ataxia?
Friedreich's ataxia is an autosomal recessive disease, meaning individuals only develop symptoms if they inherit two copies of the defective FXN gene, one from their father and one from their mother.
What Is Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis AH-stee-oh-ar-THREYE-tis is the most common type of arthritis and is seen especially among older people.
Sometimes it is called degenerative joint disease.
Osteoarthritis mostly affects cartilage KAR-til-uj, the hard but slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones where they meet to form a joint.
Healthy cartilage allows bones to glide over one another.
It also absorbs energy from the shock of physical movement.
In osteoarthritis, the surface layer of cartilage breaks and wears away.
This allows bones under the cartilage to rub together, causing pain, swelling, and loss of motion of the joint.
Over time, the joint may lose its normal shape.
Also, small deposits of bone - called osteophytes or bone spurs - may grow on the edges of the joint.
Bits of bone or cartilage can break off and float inside the joint space.
This causes more pain and damage.
What is Traumatic brain injury TBI?
Traumatic brain injury TBI is a major public health problem, especially among male adolescents and young adults ages 15 to 24, and among elderly people of both sexes 75 years and older.
What are the causes of myoclonus?
Myoclonus may develop in response to infection, head or spinal cord injury, stroke, brain tumors, kidney or liver failure, lipid storage disease, chemical or drug poisoning, or other disorders.
Prolonged oxygen deprivation to the brain, called hypoxia, may result in posthypoxic myoclonus.
Myoclonus can occur by itself, but most often it is one of several symptoms associated with a wide variety of nervous system disorders.
For example, myoclonic jerking may develop in patients with multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, or Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
Myoclonic jerks commonly occur in persons with epilepsy, a disorder in which the electrical activity in the brain becomes disordered leading to seizures.
How Is It Treated?
The main goals of treatment are to preserve a high level of physical and social functioning and maintain a good quality of life.
To achieve these goals, doctors recommend treatments to reduce swelling, maintain full movement in the affected joints, relieve pain, and prevent, identify, and treat complications.
Most children with juvenile arthritis need a combination of medication and nonmedication treatments to reach these goals.
How is diverticulosis treated?
Eating high-fiber foods can help relieve symptoms.
Sometimes mild pain medications also help.
What is Gastritis?
Gastritis is a condition in which the stomach lining - known as the mucosa - is inflamed.
What do researchers know about dystonia?
There are several genetic causes of dystonia.
Some forms appear to be inherited in a dominant manner, which means only one parent who carries the defective gene is needed to pass the disorder to their child.
Each child of a parent having the abnormal gene will have a 50 percent chance of carrying the defective gene.
It is important to note the symptoms may vary widely in type and severity even among members of the same family.
In some instances, persons who inherit the defective gene may not develop dystonia.
Having one mutated gene appears to be sufficient to cause the chemical imbalances that may lead to dystonia, but other genetic or even environmental factors may play a role.
Knowing the pattern of inheritance can help families understand the risk of passing dystonia along to future generations.
What is the prognosis for Parkinson's Disease?
PD is both chronic, meaning it persists over a long period of time, and progressive, meaning its symptoms grow worse over time.
Although some people become severely disabled, others experience only minor motor disruptions.
Tremor is the major symptom for some patients, while for others tremor is only a minor complaint and other symptoms are more troublesome.
No one can predict which symptoms will affect an individual patient, and the intensity of the symptoms also varies from person to person.
What is Behcet's disease?
Behcet's disease is a rare, chronic inflammatory disorder.
What is An ileostomy?
An ileostomy is a stoma created from a part of the ileum.
What can I do as a parent or guardian to help prevent childhood overweight and obesity?
Remember that the goal for overweight and obese children and teens is to reduce the rate of weight gain while allowing normal growth and development.
Children and teens should NOT be placed on a weight reduction diet without the consultation of a health care provider.
What is Shaken Baby Syndrome?
Shaken baby syndrome is a type of inflicted traumatic brain injury that happens when a baby is violently shaken.
A baby has weak neck muscles and a large, heavy head.
Shaking makes the fragile brain bounce back and forth inside the skull and causes bruising, swelling, and bleeding, which can lead to permanent, severe brain damage or death.
The characteristic injuries of shaken baby syndrome are subdural hemorrhages bleeding in the brain, retinal hemorrhages bleeding in the retina, damage to the spinal cord and neck, and fractures of the ribs and bones.
These injuries may not be immediately noticeable.
Symptoms of shaken baby syndrome include extreme irritability, lethargy, poor feeding, breathing problems, convulsions, vomiting, and pale or bluish skin.
Shaken baby injuries usually occur in children younger than 2 years old, but may be seen in children up to the age of 5.
What is the prognosis for Essential Tremor?
Although essential tremor is not life-threatening, it can make it harder to perform daily tasks and is embarrassing to some people.
Tremor frequency may decrease as the person ages, but the severity may increase, affecting the person's ability to perform certain tasks or activities of daily living.
In many people the tremor may be mild throughout life.
How is cirrhosis treated?
Treatment for cirrhosis depends on the cause of the disease and whether complications are present.
In the early stages of cirrhosis, the goals of treatment are to slow the progression of tissue scarring in the liver and prevent complications.
As cirrhosis progresses, a person may need additional treatments and hospitalization to manage complications.
Treatment may include the following:
What do People With Anorexia Nervosa Need to Know About Osteoporosi?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33578217.xml:
What research is being done for Arteriovenous?
Finally, several ongoing studies are devoted to developing new noninvasive neuroimaging technologies to increase the effectiveness and safety of AVM surgery.
Some scientists are pioneering the use of MRI to measure amounts of oxygen present in the brain tissue of patients with vascular lesions in order to predict the brain's response to surgical therapies.
Others are developing a new micro-imager that may be inserted into catheters to increase the accuracy of angiography.
In addition, new types of noninvasive imaging devices are being developed that detect functional brain activity through changes in tissue light emission or reflectance.
This technology may prove more sensitive than MRI and other imaging devices currently available, giving surgeons a new tool for improving the efficacy and safety of AVM surgery.
What is Biologic therapy?
Biologic therapy is a cancer treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer.
Is there any treatment for Niemann-Pick Disease?
There is currently no cure for Niemann-Pick disease.
Children usually die from infection or progressive neurological loss.
There is currently no effective treatment for persons with type A.
Bone marrow transplantation has been attempted in a few patients with type B, and encouraging results have been reported.
The development of enzyme replacement and gene therapies might also be helpful for those with type B.
Individuals with types C and D are frequently placed on a low-cholesterol diet and/or cholesterol lowering drugs, but research has not shown these interventions to change the abnormal cholesterol metabolism or halt disease progression.
Is it worth the risk?
The phrase what happens on spring break stays on spring break can imply that it is okay - even expected - to engage in risky behaviors that you would not normally consider in your daily life, but you should take your healthy behaviors on vacation with you:
What has the discovery of bat influenza taught us about influenza viruses?
The discovery of bat influenza has shed light on the evolution of influenza A, B and C viruses.
It is possible that many of the internal genes of this new bat influenza virus are descendants of influenza virus families that once circulated more widely in previous centuries and that are now extinct - or yet to be discovered.
What is Myasthenia gravis?
Myasthenia gravis is the most common autoimmune disease associated with thymoma.
What Research Is Being Conducted on Juvenile Arthritis?
Researchers keep trying to improve existing treatments for children and find new medicines that will work better with fewer side effects.
That effort received a major boost with the passage of the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, which requires drugs that might be used in children to be tested in children.
As a result of the act, increasing numbers of medications are being tested for safety and effectiveness in children.
Consequently, doctors will have more information on appropriate medications and doses to prescribe for their pediatric patients.
What is Creatine kinase?
Creatine kinase is an enzyme that leaks out of damaged muscle.
Is there any treatment for Orthostatic Hypotension?
When orthostatic hypotension is caused by hypovolemia due to medications, the disorder may be reversed by adjusting the dosage or by discontinuing the medication.
When the condition is caused by prolonged bed rest, improvement may occur by sitting up with increasing frequency each day.
In some cases, physical counterpressure such as elastic hose or whole-body inflatable suits may be required.
Dehydration is treated with salt and fluids.
More severe cases can be treated with drugs, such as midodrine, to raise blood pressure.
What research is being done for Hypersomnia?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on sleep disorders such as hypersomnia.
The goal of this research is to increase scientific understanding of the condition, find improved methods of diagnosing and treating it, and discover ways to prevent it.
Can antacids or milk help a peptic ulcer heal?
People used to believe drinking milk helped peptic ulcers heal.
But doctors know now that while milk may make an ulcer feel better briefly, it also increases stomach acid, which can make ulcers worse.
Patients should talk with their doctor about drinking milk while an ulcer is healing.
What research is being done for Spinal?
Between 2003 and 2012, the NINDS piloted the Spinal Muscular Atrophy Project to expedite therapeutics development for this hereditary neurodegenerative disease.
The Project was designed to accelerate the research process by identifying drugs already in use that increase the level of SMN protein in cultured cells, so that they could be used as potential leads for further drug discovery and clinical testing.
Read more about the history of this pioneering effort and how it led to collaboration with several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
.
Can Chagas disease be spread through donated organs?
Yes.
Chagas disease can be spread to an organ transplant recipient if a donated organ came from a person with Chagas disease.
What is the prognosis for Cushing's Syndrome?
The prognosis for those with Cushing's syndrome varies depending on the cause of the disease.
Most cases of Cushing's syndrome can be cured.
Many individuals with Cushing's syndrome show significant improvement with treatment, although some may find recovery complicated by various aspects of the causative illness.
Some kinds of tumors may recur.
Does Scoliosis Have to Be Treated? What Are the Treatments?
Bracing.
Doctors may advise patients to wear a brace to stop a curve from getting any worse in patients who are still growing with moderate spinal curvature.
As a child nears the end of growth, the indications for bracing will depend on how the curve affects the child's appearance, whether the curve is getting worse, and the size of the curve.
What is Tabes Dorsalis?
Tabes dorsalis is a slow degeneration of the nerve cells and nerve fibers that carry sensory information to the brain.
The degenerating nerves are in the dorsal columns of the spinal cord the portion closest to the back of the body and carry information that help maintain a person's sense of position.
Tabes dorsalis is the result of an untreated syphilis infection.
Symptoms may not appear for some decades after the initial infection and include weakness, diminished reflexes, unsteady gait, progressive degeneration of the joints, loss of coordination, episodes of intense pain and disturbed sensation, personality changes, dementia, deafness, visual impairment, and impaired response to light.
The disease is more frequent in males than in females.
Onset is commonly during mid-life.
The incidence of tabes dorsalis is rising, in part due to co-associated HIV infection.
How do I know if my child is growing and developing on schedule?
Your child's doctor or nurse can help you identify 'developmental milestones,' or signs to look for in your child.
This is an important part of the well-child visit.
How Can Fanconi Anemia Be Prevented?
If you're at high risk for FA and are planning to have children, you may want to consider genetic counseling.
A counselor can help you understand your risk of having a child who has FA.
He or she also can explain the choices that are available to you.
What Research is Being Done?
A healthy immune system protects against all kinds of diseases, but people with weakened immunity are vulnerable to many illnesses, including shingles.
Antibodies, one of the immune system's major defense mechanisms against infection, are not very helpful against shingles.
The immune cells that appear to combat shingles are two types of white blood cells: T lymphocytes and macrophages.
Scientists are trying to find ways to boost the activity of these cells - especially in patients at high risk for severe or disseminated shingles a rare condition in which the virus spreads to other areas of the body, sometimes vital areas such as the blood or the lungs.
What is Batten disease?
Batten disease is a fatal, inherited disorder of the nervous system that typically begins in childhood.
What is Heart failure?
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart is damaged or weak.
What is the prognosis for Machado-Joseph Disease?
The severity of the disease is related to the age of onset, with earlier onset associated with more severe forms of the disease.
Symptoms can begin any time between early adolescence and about 70 years of age.
MJD is a progressive disease, meaning that symptoms get worse with time.
Life expectancy ranges from the mid-thirties for those with severe forms of MJD to a normal life expectancy for those with mild forms.
The cause of death for those who die early is often aspiration pneumonia.
What Are the Risks of Sleep Studies?
Although the risks of sleep studies are minimal, these studies take time at least several hours.
If you're having a daytime sleep study, bring a book or something to do during the test.
Phantom Pain: How Does the Brain Feel?
Our understanding of phantom pain has improved tremendously in recent years.
Investigators previously believed that brain cells affected by amputation simply died off.
They attributed sensations of pain at the site of the amputation to irritation of nerves located near the limb stump.
Now, using imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography PET and magnetic resonance imaging MRI, scientists can actually visualize increased activity in the brain's cortex when an individual feels phantom pain.
When study participants move the stump of an amputated limb, neurons in the brain remain dynamic and excitable.
Surprisingly, the brain's cells can be stimulated by other body parts, often those located closest to the missing limb.
What are the reasons for doing these experiments?
The influenza pandemic of 1918-19 killed an estimated 20 to 50 million people worldwide, many more than the subsequent pandemics of the 20th century.
The biological properties that confer virulence to pandemic influenza viruses were poorly understood.
Research to better understand how the individual genes of the1918 pandemic influenza virus contribute to the disease process could provide important insights into the basis of virulence.
This kind of information will enable us to devise appropriate strategies for early diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, should a similar pandemic virus emerge.
Additionally, such research will provide us with general principles with which we can better design antiviral drugs and other interventions against all influenza viruses with enhanced virulence.
What does Prostate Cancer Survivor Need to Know about Osteoporosi?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33578439.xml:
What research is being done for Thoracic Outlet Syndrome?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes at the National Institutes of Health support research in TOS through grants to major medical research institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to diagnose and treat TOS.
What is the prognosis for Arachnoiditis?
Arachnoiditis is a disorder that causes chronic pain and neurological deficits and does not improve significantly with treatment.
Surgery may only provide temporary relief.
The outlook for someone with arachnoiditis is complicated by the fact that the disorder has no predictable pattern or severity of symptoms.
What Is Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis is a condition that causes changes in cartilage, the elastic tissue that cushions the joints.
Healthy cartilage allows bones to glide over one another, while absorbing energy from the shock of physical movement.
In osteoarthritis, the surface layer of cartilage breaks down and wears away.
This allows bones under the cartilage to rub together, causing pain, swelling, and loss of motion of the joint.
What is Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease?
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease CJD is a rare, degenerative, invariably fatal brain disorder.
Typically, onset of symptoms occurs at about age 60.
There are three major categories of CJD: sporadic CJD, hereditary CJD, and acquired CJD.
There is currently no single diagnostic test for CJD.
The first concern is to rule out treatable forms of dementia such as encephalitis or chronic meningitis.
The only way to confirm a diagnosis of CJD is by brain biopsy or autopsy.
In a brain biopsy, a neurosurgeon removes a small piece of tissue from the patient's brain so that it can be examined by a neurologist.
Because a correct diagnosis of CJD does not help the patient, a brain biopsy is discouraged unless it is need to rule out a treatable disorder.
While CJD can be transmitted to other people, the risk of this happening is extremely small.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What research is being done for Multi-Infarct Dementia?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to MID in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH, and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure the vascular dementias, such as MID.
How does vasculitis affect the nervous system?
Vasculitis can cause problems in any organ system, including the central CNS and peripheral PNS nervous systems.
Vasculitic disorders, or syndromes, of the CNS and PNS are characterized by the presence of inflammatory cells in and around blood vessels, and secondary narrowing or blockage of the blood vessels that nourish the brain, spinal cord, or peripheral nerves.
Any type or size of blood vessel may be involved - arteries, arterioles, veins, venules, or capillaries.
What are the benefits of breastfeeding?
Breastfeeding gives you and your baby time to be close, get to know each other, and bond.
Breastfeeding is a healthy choice for both moms and babies.
What is the appendix?
The appendix is a fingerlike pouch attached to the large intestine in the lower right area of the abdomen, the area between the chest and hips.
The large intestine is part of the body's gastrointestinal GI tract.
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
The movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, helps digest food.
The appendix does not appear to have a specific function in the body, and removing it does not seem to affect a person's health.
What Is Juvenile Arthritis?
Juvenile arthritis occurs in children 16 years of age or younger.
Children with severe juvenile arthritis may be candidates for glucocorticoid medication, the use of which has been linked to bone loss in children as well as adults.
Physical activity can be challenging in children with juvenile arthritis because it may cause pain.
Incorporating physical activities recommended by the child's doctor and a diet rich in calcium and vitamin D is especially important, so that these children can build adequate bone mass and reduce the risk of future fracture.
Is there any treatment for Whiplash?
Treatment for individuals with whiplash may include pain medications, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antidepressants, muscle relaxants, and a cervical collar usually worn for 2 to 3 weeks.
Range of motion exercises, physical therapy, and cervical traction may also be prescribed.
Supplemental heat application may relieve muscle tension.
How Are Palpitations Treated?
Treatment for palpitations depends on their cause.
Most palpitations are harmless and often go away on their own.
In these cases, no treatment is needed.
What is Hormone therapy?
Hormone therapy is a cancer treatment that removes hormones or blocks their action and stops cancer cells from growing.
What Are the Risks of a Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant?
The main risks of a blood and marrow stem cell transplant are infections, graft-versus-host disease GVHD, and graft failure.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Asthma?
Not all people who have asthma have these symptoms.
Likewise, having these symptoms doesn't always mean that you have asthma.
The best way doctors have to diagnose asthma is to use a lung function test, ask about medical history including type and frequency of symptoms, and do a physical exam.
What should you expect during a Lung Transplant?
Once you're asleep, your doctors will make a small incision cut in your chest.
Next, they will insert a central venous catheter into a vein.
This tube allows easy access to your bloodstream.
Doctors use it to deliver fluids and medicines to your body.
What research is being done for Mitochondrial Myopathies?
The NINDS conducts and supports research on mitochondrial myopathies.
The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to effectively treat, prevent, or potentially cure them.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
If not prevented or if left untreated, bone loss can progress painlessly until a bone breaks, typically in the hip, spine, or wrist.
A hip fracture can limit mobility and lead to a loss of independence, and vertebral fractures can result in a loss of height, stooped posture, and chronic pain.
What Proven Strategies Work to Reduce U.S.
Smoking Rates?
Smoking has been the number one cause of preventable death and disease in this country for decades.
The death and disease from tobacco - which claims more than 480,000 lives each year - is overwhelmingly caused by cigarettes and other burned tobacco products.
Who Gets Scoliosis?
People of all ages can have scoliosis, but this publication focuses on children and adolescents.
Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis scoliosis of unknown cause is the most common type and typically occurs after the age of 10.
Girls are more likely than boys to have this type of scoliosis.
Because scoliosis can run in families, a child who has a parent, brother, or sister with idiopathic scoliosis should be checked regularly for scoliosis by the family doctor.
What are the symptoms?
Symptoms of normal pressure hydrocephalus include problems with walking, impaired bladder control leading to urinary frequency and/or incontinence, and progressive mental impairment and dementia.
An individual with this type of hydrocephalus may have a general slowing of movements or may complain that his or her feet feel stuck.
Because some of these symptoms may also be experienced in other disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, normal pressure hydrocephalus is often incorrectly diagnosed and never properly treated.
Doctors may use a variety of tests, including brain scans such as computed tomography CT and magnetic resonance imaging MRI, a spinal tap or lumbar catheter, intracranial pressure monitoring, and neuropsychological tests, to help them accurately diagnose normal pressure hydrocephalus and rule out any other conditions.
What is Weight-bearing exercise?
Weight-bearing exercise is the best for your bones because it forces you to work against gravity.
What are the long-term complications of GERD for children and adolescents?
esophagitis - irritation of the esophagus from refluxed stomach acid that damages the lining and causes sores, called ulcers, or bleeding.
Children and adolescents who have chronic esophagitis over many years are more likely to develop precancerous changes in the esophagus during adulthood.
What is Niemann-Pick Disease?
Niemann-Pick disease NP refers to a group of inherited metabolic disorders known as lipid storage diseases.
Lipids fatty materials such as waxes, fatty acids, oils, and cholesterol and proteins are usually broken down into smaller components to provide energy for the body.
In Niemann-Pick disease, harmful quantities of lipids accumulate in the spleen, liver, lungs, bone marrow, and the brain.
Symptoms may include lack of muscle coordination, brain degeneration, eye paralysis, learning problems, loss of muscle tone, increased sensitivity to touch, spasticity, feeding and swallowing difficulties, slurred speech, and an enlarged liver and spleen.
There may be clouding of the cornea and a characteristic cherry-red halo develops around the center of the retina.
The disease has 4 related types.
Type A, the most severe form, occurs in early infancy.
It is characterized by an enlarged liver and spleen, swollen lymph nodes, and profound brain damage by six months of age.
Children with this type rarely live beyond 18 months.
Type B involves an enlarged liver and spleen, which usually occurs in the pre-teen years.
The brain is not affected.
In types A and B, insufficient activity of an enzyme called sphingomyelinase causes the build up of toxic amounts of sphingomyelin, a fatty substance present in every cell of the body.
Types C and D may appear early in life or develop in the teen or adult years.
Affected individuals have only moderate enlargement of the spleen and liver, but brain damage may be extensive and cause an inability to look up and down, difficulty in walking and swallowing, and progressive loss of vision and hearing.
Types C and D are characterized by a defect that disrupts the transport of cholesterol between brain cells.
Type D usually occurs in people with an ancestral background in Nova Scotia.
Types C and D are caused by a lack of the NPC1 or NPC 2 proteins.
What is the prognosis for Spinal Cord Infarction?
Recovery depends upon how quickly treatment is received and how severely the body is compromised.
Paralysis may persist for many weeks or be permanent.
Most individuals have a good chance of recovery.
Why does a person need ostomy surgery of the bowel?
diverticulitis - - a condition that occurs when small pouches in the colon called diverticula become inflamed, or irritated and swollen, and infected.
Do children with AS get better?
With effective treatment, children with AS can learn to overcome their disabilities, but they may still find social situations and personal relationships challenging.
Many adults with Asperger syndrome work successfully in mainstream jobs, although they may continue to need encouragement and moral support to maintain an independent life.
What is Dementia?
Dementia is not a specific disease.
It is a descriptive term for a collection of symptoms that can be caused by a number of disorders that affect the brain.
People with dementia have significantly impaired intellectual functioning that interferes with normal activities and relationships.
They also lose their ability to solve problems and maintain emotional control, and they may experience personality changes and behavioral problems, such as agitation, delusions, and hallucinations.
While memory loss is a common symptom of dementia, memory loss by itself does not mean that a person has dementia.
Doctors diagnose dementia only if two or more brain functions - such as memory and language skills -- are significantly impaired without loss of consciousness.
Some of the diseases that can cause symptoms of dementia are Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, Lewy body dementia, frontotemporal dementia, Huntington's disease, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
Doctors have identified other conditions that can cause dementia or dementia-like symptoms including reactions to medications, metabolic problems and endocrine abnormalities, nutritional deficiencies, infections, poisoning, brain tumors, anoxia or hypoxia conditions in which the brain's oxygen supply is either reduced or cut off entirely, and heart and lung problems.
Although it is common in very elderly individuals, dementia is not a normal part of the aging process.
What is A ureteroscope?
A ureteroscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing.
What is Prosopagnosia?
Prosopagnosia is a neurological disorder characterized by the inability to recognize faces.
What is the course of TS?
Tics come and go over time, varying in type, frequency, location, and severity.
The first symptoms usually occur in the head and neck area and may progress to include muscles of the trunk and extremities.
Motor tics generally precede the development of vocal tics and simple tics often precede complex tics.
Most patients experience peak tic severity before the mid-teen years with improvement for the majority of patients in the late teen years and early adulthood.
Approximately 10-15 percent of those affected have a progressive or disabling course that lasts into adulthood.
What research is being done for Spinal?
In May 2011, scientists funded in part by the National Institutes of Health reported that after intensive physical therapy and electrical stimulation to the spine, a man with a paralyzing spinal cord injury from the chest down had recovered the ability to stand and move paralyzed muscles at will when the stimulator is active.
The man participated in a pilot study that combined epidermal stimulation and locomotor training - involving his being suspended for hours a day in a harness, walking on a treadmill while physical therapists moved his legs in stepping motions.
Two years of locomotor training following his injury did not improve his ability to walk or stand.
But he did improve after December 2009, when electrodes were surgically implanted over the paralyzed area of his spinal cord and began sending rhythmic electrical bursts to neurons in the spinal cord during the locomotor training sessions.
This epidural simulation imitates the brain's sending signals to the spinal cord to begin movement.
He gradually became able to stand and fully bear his own weight for a few minutes at a time.
Although he can't walk without assistance, he can bend one leg at the knee and flex his ankle when the stimulator is active.
Locomotor training without any epidural stimulation is routinely used as a rehabilitative technique for people with spinal cord injuries - which allows some individuals to retain the ability to move and feel below the injury.
Meanwhile, a form of epidural stimulation is used to relieve pain for some individuals.
The researchers and NIH scientists caution that this finding was in only one person, and further study is required to confirm these early, promising results and to understand exactly how the stimulation is working.
What is a liver biopsy?
Laparoscopic biopsy involves inserting a laparoscope, a thin tube with a tiny video camera attached, through a small incision to look inside the body to view the surface of organs.
The health care provider will insert a needle through a plastic, tubelike instrument called a cannula to remove the liver tissue sample.
Is pregnancy safe for women with Crohn's disease?
Many women with Crohn's disease can become pregnant and have a baby.
However, if you are a woman with Crohn's disease, you should talk with your health care provider before getting pregnant.
What is Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia?
Hereditary spastic paraplegia HSP, also called familial spastic paraparesis FSP, refers to a group of inherited disorders that are characterized by progressive weakness and spasticity stiffness of the legs.
Early in the disease course, there may be mild gait difficulties and stiffness.
These symptoms typically slowly progress so that eventually individuals with HSP may require the assistance of a cane, walker, or wheelchair.
Though the primary features of pure HSP are progressive lower limb spasticity and weakness, complicated forms may be accompanied by other symptoms.
These additional impaired vision due to cataracts and problems with the optic nerve and retina of the eye, ataxia lack of muscle coordination, epilepsy, cognitive impairment, peripheral neuropathy, and deafness.
The diagnosis of HSP is primarily by neurological examination and testing to rule out other disorders.
Brain MRI abnormalities, such as a thin corpus callosum, may be seen in some of the complicated forms of HSP.
Several genetic mutations have been identified which underlie various forms of HSP, and specialized genetic testing and diagnosis are available at some medical centers.
HSP has several forms of inheritance.
Not all children in a family will necessarily develop symptoms, although they may be carriers of the abnormal gene.
Symptoms may begin in childhood or adulthood, depending on the particular HSP gene involved.
What is the prognosis for Cerebral Hypoxia?
Recovery depends on how long the brain has been deprived of oxygen and how much brain damage has occurred, although carbon monoxide poisoning can cause brain damage days to weeks after the event.
Most people who make a full recovery have only been briefly unconscious.
The longer someone is unconscious, the higher the chances of death or brain death and the lower the chances of a meaningful recovery.
During recovery, psychological and neurological abnormalities such as amnesia, personality regression, hallucinations, memory loss, and muscle spasms and twitches may appear, persist, and then resolve.
What are the large intestine, colon, rectum, and anus?
The large intestine, which includes the colon and rectum, is the last part of the digestive tract.
The large intestine's main job is to absorb water and hold stool.
The rectum connects the colon to the anus.
Stool passes out of the body through the anus.
At birth, the large intestine is about 2 feet long.
An adult's large intestine is about 5 feet long.
How Is Bronchiectasis Diagnosed?
Your doctor may suspect bronchiectasis if you have a daily cough that produces large amounts of sputum spit.
How Can I Join a Research Study?
There are many benefits to being part of a research study, such as getting related medical care at no charge and, in some cases, help with travel and other costs.
Also, study volunteers are seen by a team of experts and are often among the first to receive new treatments ahead of the general public.
Many volunteers take part in the research simply because they want to help others with the same disease, both today and in the future.
What is Physical activity?
Physical activity is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
Is there any treatment for Dermatomyositis?
There is no cure for dermatomyositis, but the symptoms can be treated.
Options include medication, physical therapy, exercise, heat therapy including microwave and ultrasound, orthotics and assistive devices, and rest.
The standard treatment for dermatomyositis is a corticosteroid drug, given either in pill form or intravenously.
Immunosuppressant drugs, such as azathioprine and methotrexate, may reduce inflammation in people who do not respond well to prednisone.
Periodic treatment using intravenous immunoglobulin can also improve recovery.
Other immunosuppressive agents used to treat the inflammation associated with dermatomyositis include cyclosporine A, cyclophosphamide, and tacrolimus.
Physical therapy is usually recommended to prevent muscle atrophy and to regain muscle strength and range of motion.
Many individuals with dermatomyositis may need a topical ointment, such as topical corticosteroids, for their skin disorder.
They should wear a high-protection sunscreen and protective clothing.
Surgery may be required to remove calcium deposits that cause nerve pain and recurrent infections.
What is the prognosis for Lissencephaly?
The prognosis for children with lissencephaly depends on the degree of brain malformation.
Many will die before the age of 10 years.
The cause of death is usually aspiration of food or fluids, respiratory disease, or severe seizures.
Some will survive, but show no significant development -- usually not beyond a 3- to 5-month-old level.
Others may have near-normal development and intelligence.
Because of this range, it is important to seek the opinion of specialists in lissencephaly and support from family groups with connection to these specialists.
What Is Pneumonia?
The infection inflames your lungs' air sacs, which are called alveoli al-VEE-uhl-eye.
The air sacs may fill up with fluid or pus, causing symptoms such as a cough with phlegm a slimy substance, fever, chills, and trouble breathing.
What is Infantile Neuroaxonal Dystrophy ?
Infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy INAD is a rare inherited neurological disorder.
It affects axons, the part of a nerve cell that carries messages from the brain to other parts of the body, and causes progressive loss of vision, muscular control, and mental skills.
While the basic genetic and metabolic causes are unknown, INAD is the result of an abnormal build-up of toxic substances in nerves that communicate with muscles, skin, and the conjunctive tissue around the eyes.
Symptoms usually begin within the first 2 years of life, with the loss of head control and the ability to sit, crawl, or walk, accompanied by deterioration in vision and speech.
Some children may have seizures.
Distinctive facial deformities may be present at birth, including a prominent forehead, crossed eyes, an unusually small nose or jaw, and large, low-set ears.
INAD is an autosomal recessive disorder, which means that both parents must be carriers of the defective gene that causes INAD to pass it on to their child.
Electrophysiology nerve conduction velocities may be helpful for diagnosis, although diagnosis is usually confirmed by tissue biopsy of skin, rectum, nerve or conjunctive tissue to confirm the presence of characteristic swellings spheroid bodies in the nerve axons.
What research is being done for Tardive Dyskinesia?
The NINDS conducts and supports a broad range of research on movement disorders including tardive dyskinesia.
The goals of this research are to improve understanding of these disorders and to discover ways to treat, prevent, and, ultimately, cure them.
What is Alopecia areata?
Alopecia areata is a disease that affects the hair follicles, which are part of the skin from which hairs grow.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Lymphocytopenia?
If you have unusual infections, repeat infections, and/or infections that won't go away, your doctor may suspect that you have lymphocytopenia.
Fever is the most common symptom of infection.
How Is Insomnia Diagnosed?
Your doctor will likely diagnose insomnia based on your medical and sleep histories and a physical exam.
He or she also may recommend a sleep study.
For example, you may have a sleep study if the cause of your insomnia is unclear.
What research is being done for Occipital Neuralgia?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes at the National Institutes of Health conduct research related to pain and occipital neuralgia in their clinics and laboratories and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on understanding the basic mechanisms of pain and testing treatments in order to find better ways to treat occipital neuralgia.
What is Sterilization?
Sterilization is a permanent method of birth control.
Who's at Risk?
Other at-risk groups include African Americans, American Indians, and Alaskan Natives.
African Americans between the ages of 5 and 19 are six times as likely to fatally drown in pools as whites or Hispanics.
Factors such as access to and use of swimming pools and lessons, and a combination of social and cultural issues, may contribute to the racial differences in fatal drowning rates.
If rates could be determined by actual participation in water-related activities, disparity in minorities fatal drowning rates compared to whites would be much greater.
How is gas treated?
Gas can be treated by reducing swallowed air, making dietary changes, or taking over-the-counter or prescription medications.
People who think they have too much gas can try to treat gas on their own before seeing a health care provider.
Health care providers can provide advice about reducing gas and prescribe medications that may help.
What should you expect during a Chest X Ray?
Chest x rays are done at doctors' offices, clinics, hospitals, and other health care facilities.
The location depends on the situation.
An x-ray technician oversees the test.
This person is specially trained to do x-ray tests.
What research is being done for Kuru?
The NINDS funds research to better understand the genetic, molecular, and cellular mechanisms that underlie the TSE diseases.
Findings from this research will lead to ways to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure these diseases.
How is a liver biopsy performed?
A health care provider performs the liver biopsy at a hospital or an outpatient center and determines which type of biopsy is best for the person.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a painless test that creates pictures of the structures in the chest, such as the heart and lungs.
What research is being done for Muscular Dystrophy?
The NINDS supports a broad program of research studies on MD.
The goals of these studies are to understand MD and to develop techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure the disorder.
The NINDS is a member of the Muscular Dystrophy Coordinating Committee MDCC.
For additional information, please visit:
What is Paroxysmal choreoathetosis?
Paroxysmal choreoathetosis is a movement disorder characterized by episodes or attacks of involuntary movements of the limbs, trunk, and facial muscles.
What is A proctoscope?
A proctoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing.
How Is Osteoarthritis Treated?
Most successful treatment programs involve a combination of treatments tailored to the patient's needs, lifestyle, and health.
Most programs include ways to manage pain and improve function.
These can involve exercise, weight control, rest and relief from stress on joints, pain relief techniques, medications, surgery, and complementary and alternative therapies.
These approaches are described below.
How is cirrhosis diagnosed?
A health care provider usually diagnoses cirrhosis based on the presence of conditions that increase its likelihood, such as heavy alcohol use or obesity, and symptoms.
A health care provider may test for cirrhosis based on the presence of these conditions alone because many people do not have symptoms in the early stages of the disease.
A health care provider may confirm the diagnosis with.
What is Vitamin A?
Vitamin A is a family of compounds that play an important role in vision, bone growth, reproduction, cell division, and cell differentiation.
What is A phase III clinical trial?
A phase III clinical trial is the largest endeavor in clinical research
What is Pathology NSCLC?
Pathology NSCLC is a heterogeneous aggregate of histologies.
What is Hypotension based on?
Hypotension is diagnosed based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
How can bleeding in the digestive tract be prevented?
Health care providers can prevent bleeding in the digestive tract by treating the conditions that cause the bleeding.
People can prevent some of the causes of digestive tract bleeding by.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
What is One option?
One option is a speaking valve that attaches to the trach tube.
What research is being done for Wallenberg's Syndrome?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to Wallenberg's syndrome in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH, and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as Wallenberg's syndrome.
How Is LAM Diagnosed?
LAM is diagnosed based on your signs and symptoms and the results from tests and procedures.
If you have LAM, you may need to see a pulmonologist.
This is a doctor who specializes in lung diseases and conditions.
Does CDC 'keep track' of genetic changes in HPAI H5N1 viruses?
To improve pandemic preparedness and aid the influenza surveillance and research community, CDC has compiled an inventory of H5N1 virus genetic changes that may impact the transmissibility of these viruses and/or their susceptibility to influenza antiviral drugs.
Influenza researchers can use this resource to identify genetic changes in H5N1 viruses that may have a significant public health impact.
It is recognized that the H5N1 Inventory will need to be updated periodically, as H5N1 viruses continue to evolve.
CDC will update this inventory on a regular basis in partnership with international influenza experts.
How is gastritis diagnosed?
The most common diagnostic test for gastritis is endoscopy with a biopsy of the stomach.
The doctor will usually give the patient medicine to reduce discomfort and anxiety before beginning the endoscopy procedure.
The doctor then inserts an endoscope, a thin tube with a tiny camera on the end, through the patient's mouth or nose and into the stomach.
The doctor uses the endoscope to examine the lining of the esophagus, stomach, and first portion of the small intestine.
If necessary, the doctor will use the endoscope to perform a biopsy, which involves collecting tiny samples of tissue for examination with a microscope.
Is there any treatment for Tarlov Cysts?
Tarlov cysts may be drained and shunted to relieve pressure and pain, but relief is often only temporary and fluid build-up in the cysts will recur.
Corticosteroid injections may also temporarily relieve pain.
Other drugs may be prescribed to treat chronic pain and depression.
Injecting the cysts with fibrin glue a combination of naturally occurring substances based on the clotting factor in blood may provide temporary relief of pain.
Some scientists believe the herpes simplex virus, which thrives in an alkaline environment, can cause Tarlov cysts to become symptomatic.
Making the body less alkaline, through diet or supplements, may lessen symptoms.
Microsurgical removal of the cyst may be an option in select individuals who do not respond to conservative treatments and who continue to experience pain or progressive neurological damage.
What should you expect after Cardioversion?
You may have some redness or soreness on your chest where the electrodes were placed.
This may last for a few days after the procedure.
You also may have slight bruising or soreness at the site where the intravenous IV line was inserted.
Is there any treatment for Monomelic Amyotrophy?
There is no cure for MMA.
Treatment consists of muscle strengthening exercises and training in hand coordination.
What research is being done for Anencephaly?
Research supported by the NINDS includes studies to understand how the brain and nervous system normally develop.
These studies contribute to a greater understanding of neural tube disorders, such as anencephaly, and open promising new avenues to treat and prevent neurological birth defects.
What is A major goal of PD research?
A major goal of PD research is the development of new therapies.
How Is Iron-Deficiency Anemia Diagnosed?
Mild to moderate iron-deficiency anemia may have no signs or symptoms.
Thus, you may not know you have it unless your doctor discovers it from a screening test or while checking for other problems.
What is Capecitabine?
Capecitabine is an oral fluoropyrimidine that undergoes a three-step enzymatic conversion to 5-FU with the last step occurring in the tumor cell.
What is Septo-Optic Dysplasia?
Septo-optic dysplasia SOD is a rare disorder characterized by abnormal development of the optic disk, pituitary deficiencies, and often agenesis absence of the septum pellucidum the part of the brain that separates the anterior horns or the lateral ventricles of the brain.
Symptoms may include blindness in one or both eyes, pupil dilation in response to light, nystagmus a rapid, involuntary to-and-fro movement of the eyes, inward and outward deviation of the eyes, hypotonia low muscle tone, and hormonal problems.
Seizures may also occur.
In a few cases, jaundice prolonged yellow skin discoloration may occur at birth.
Intellectual problems vary in severity among individuals.
While some children with SOD have normal intelligence, others have learning disabilities and mental retardation.
Most, however, are developmentally delayed due to vision impairment or neurological problems.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Diabetic Heart Disease?
Some people who have diabetic heart disease DHD may have no signs or symptoms of heart disease.
This is called 'silent' heart disease.
Diabetes-related nerve damage that blunts heart pain may explain why symptoms aren't noticed.
What are the symptoms of indigestion?
Sometimes the term indigestion is used to describe the symptom of heartburn, but these are two different conditions.
Heartburn is a painful, burning feeling in the chest that radiates toward the neck or back.
Heartburn is caused by stomach acid rising into the esophagus and may be a symptom of GERD.
A person can have symptoms of both indigestion and heartburn.
What do scientists know about myoclonus?
The specific mechanisms underlying myoclonus are not yet fully understood.
Scientists believe that some types of stimulus-sensitive myoclonus may involve overexcitability of the parts of the brain that control movement.
These parts are interconnected in a series of feedback loops called motor pathways.
These pathways facilitate and modulate communication between the brain and muscles.
Key elements of this communication are chemicals known as neurotransmitters, which carry messages from one nerve cell, or neuron, to another.
Neurotransmitters are released by neurons and attach themselves to receptors on parts of neighboring cells.
Some neurotransmitters may make the receiving cell more sensitive, while others tend to make the receiving cell less sensitive.
Laboratory studies suggest that an imbalance between these chemicals may underlie myoclonus.
What Causes Heart Disease?
The cause of broken heart syndrome isn't yet known.
However, a sudden release of stress hormones may play a role in causing the disorder.
Most cases of broken heart syndrome occur in women who have gone through menopause.
What research is being done for Klippel-Feil Syndrome?
Research supported by the NINDS includes studies to understand how the brain and nervous system normally develop and function and how they are affected by disease and trauma.
These studies contribute to a greater understanding of birth defects such as Klippel-Feil Syndrome and open promising new avenues for treatment.
What causes lower back pain?
Low back pain may reflect nerve or muscle irritation or bone lesions.
Most low back pain follows injury or trauma to the back, but pain may also be caused by degenerative conditions such as arthritis or disc disease, osteoporosis or other bone diseases, viral infections, irritation to joints and discs, or congenital abnormalities in the spine.
Obesity, smoking, weight gain during pregnancy, stress, poor physical condition, posture inappropriate for the activity being performed, and poor sleeping position also may contribute to low back pain.
Additionally, scar tissue created when the injured back heals itself does not have the strength or flexibility of normal tissue.
Buildup of scar tissue from repeated injuries eventually weakens the back and can lead to more serious injury.
What is the prognosis for Erb-Duchenne and Dejerine-Klumpke Palsies?
The site and type of brachial plexus injury determines the prognosis.
For avulsion and rupture injuries, there is no potential for recovery unless surgical reconnection is made in a timely manner.
The potential for recovery varies for neuroma and neuropraxia injuries.
Most individuals with neuropraxia injuries recover spontaneously with a 90-100 percent return of function.
What is the CHANGE tool?
The CHANGE tool promotes collaboration among a community team or coalition and local stakeholders to survey and identify community strengths and areas for improvement, in order to prioritize community needs.
A community that used the tool described it as a great community engagement tool for stakeholders and consortium partners.
Another community noted, Simply the act of doing the CHANGE assessment raises awareness among participants involved, and raises new ideas for positive action among coalition members.
When should I take my child to a health care provider for diarrhea?
Children with diarrhea become dehydrated much more easily than adults.
Getting treatment quickly is most important if your baby is 6 months old or younger.
How do I take care of my liver after I leave the hospital?
After you leave the hospital, you will see your doctor often to be sure your new liver is working well.
You will have regular blood tests to check that your new liver is not being damaged by rejection, infections, or problems with blood vessels or bile ducts.
When is BRCA Genetic Testing for Breast and Ovarian Cancer Appropriate?
The US Preventive Services Task Force USPSTF recommends against routine referral for BRCA testing if a woman's family history does not suggest an increased risk for harmful BRCA mutations.
The USPSTF recommends that women with a family history associated with an increased risk for BRCA mutations be referred to suitably trained health care providers.
Read the USPSTF recommendations [PDF - 142KB] and clinical considerations.
What Are The Symptoms?
Because these symptoms also occur with other diseases, hemochromatosis can be difficult to diagnose in its early stages.
What research is being done for Tourette?
Within the Federal government, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, a part of the National Institutes of Health NIH, is responsible for supporting and conducting research on the brain and nervous system.
The NINDS and other NIH components, such as the National Institute of Mental Health, the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, support research of relevance to TS, either at NIH laboratories or through grants to major research institutions across the country.
Another component of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, funds professional education programs as well as TS research.
What is A mixed glioma?
A mixed glioma is a brain tumor that has two types of tumor cells in it - oligodendrocytes and astrocytes.
What is A dissection?
A dissection is a split in one or more layers of the artery wall.
What is Thrombocythemia?
Thrombocythemia is a condition in which your body makes too many platelets.
What is Treatment Surgery?
Treatment Surgery is the most important treatment for liposarcoma.
Who Needs Lung Function Tests?
Lung function tests also are used to check the extent of damage caused by conditions such as pulmonary fibrosis and sarcoidosis.
Also, these tests might be used to check how well treatments, such as asthma medicines, are working.
What is Acute chest syndrome?
Acute chest syndrome is a severe and life-threatening complication of sickle cell anemia.
What were the biggest challenges or gaps? How have those changed or been addressed during the past decade?
Initial lack of an Emergency Operations Center and experience with incident command structure and operations.
Maintaining situational awareness in all involved areas.
Risk communication.
Responding to 24 hour news cycle and staying ahead of media in release of information.
Meeting the need to know requirements of numerous individuals and organizations.
Meeting need for rapid development of recommendations for post-exposure prophylaxis.
Maintaining relationships with Department, White House, and law enforcement.
Expanding CDC laboratory capacity.
Coping with fatigue and burnout.
Considerable progress has been made in addressing each of these issues though challenges remain.
What is Biologic therapy?
Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer.
What is Conformal radiation therapy?
Conformal radiation therapy is an alternative approach for minimizing radiation-induced neurologic damage in young children with ependymoma.
What is Trichinella spiralis?
Trichinella spiralis is a type of roundworm parasite.
What research is being done for Ataxia Telangiectasia?
NINDS-supported researchers discovered the gene responsible for A-T, known as ATM ataxia-telangiectasia mutated in 1995.
This gene makes a protein that activates many probably more than 700 other proteins that control cell cycle, DNA repair, and cell death.
Without it, cells are unable to activate the cellular checkpoints that protect against the damage of ionizing radiation and other agents that can harm DNA.
In addition to supporting basic research on A-T, NINDS also funds research aimed at A-T drug development, including development of animal models, gene and stem-cell based therapies, and high-throughput drug screens.
The NINDS also leads a trans-NIH A-T Working Group whose members include NINDS, NHLBI, NIEHS, NCI, NEI, NIGMS, NHGRI, NIA, NIAID, NICHD, and ORD.
How is short bowel syndrome treated?
The main treatment for short bowel syndrome is nutritional support.
Treatment may involve use of oral rehydration solutions, parenteral nutrition, enteral nutrition, and medications.
Oral rehydration solutions consist of sugar and salt liquids.
Parenteral nutrition delivers fluids, electrolytes, and liquid nutrients into the bloodstream intravenously - through a tube placed in a vein.
Enteral nutrition delivers liquid food to the stomach or small intestine through a feeding tube.
What is Wilson disease caused by?
Wilson disease is caused by an inherited autosomal recessive mutation, or change, in the ATP7B gene.
What is Cerebral arteriosclerosis?
Cerebral arteriosclerosis is the result of thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries in the brain.
What is Restless legs syndrome RLS?
Restless legs syndrome RLS is a neurological disorder characterized by throbbing, pulling, creeping, or other unpleasant sensations in the legs and an uncontrollable, and sometimes overwhelming, urge to move them.
What is An EKG electrocardiogram?
An EKG electrocardiogram is a simple test that detects and records the heart's electrical activity.
What is Adolescence?
Adolescence is a time of transition, marked by growth and change as well as risks and rewards that differ substantially from one young person to another.
What is Mental illness?
Mental illness is an important public health problem in the United States.
What is Chronic bronchitis?
Chronic bronchitis is a serious, long-term medical condition.
What is A mammogram?
A mammogram is an x-ray of the breast to check for breast cancer.
What should you expect during Pulmonary Rehabilitation?
Pulmonary rehabilitation PR can have many parts, and not all programs offer every part.
PR programs may include:
How is the cause of constipation diagnosed?
The physical exam may include a rectal exam.
Your doctor will insert a finger into your anus to check for tenderness, blockage, or blood.
Your doctor may test for blood in your stool by putting a small sample of your stool on a paper card and adding a drop or two of testing liquid.
A color change is a sign of blood in your stool.
What causes abdominal adhesions?
Abdominal surgery is the most frequent cause of abdominal adhesions.
Surgery-related causes include.
What is A healthy diet?
A healthy diet is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells.
What should you expect after Coronary Angiography?
After coronary angiography, you'll be moved to a special care area in the hospital.
You'll be carefully watched for several hours or overnight.
During this time, you'll need to limit your movement to avoid bleeding from the site where the catheter was inserted.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus - the opening through which stool leaves the body.
What are the risks associated with ERCP?
When ERCP is performed by an experienced doctor, complications occur in about 6 to 10 percent of patients and these often require hospitalization.
Patients who experience any of the following symptoms after ERCP should contact their health care provider immediately:
How do health care providers determine the cause of chronic diarrhea in children?
To determine the cause of chronic diarrhea in children, the health care provider will take a complete medical and family history and conduct a physical exam, and may perform tests.
What is the prognosis for Corticobasal Degeneration?
Corticobasal degeneration usually progresses slowly over the course of 6 to 8 years.
Death is generally caused by pneumonia or other complications of severe debility such as sepsis or pulmonary embolism.
What is the difference between Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C?
Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C are diseases caused by three different viruses.
Although each can cause similar symptoms, they have different modes of transmission and can affect the liver differently.
Hepatitis A appears only as an acute or newly occurring infection and does not become chronic.
People with Hepatitis A usually improve without treatment.
Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C can also begin as acute infections, but in some people, the virus remains in the body, resulting in chronic disease and long-term liver problems.
There are vaccines to prevent Hepatitis A and B; however, there is not one for Hepatitis C.
If a person has had one type of viral hepatitis in the past, it is still possible to get the other types.
Is there any treatment for Meralgia Paresthetica?
Treatment for meralgia paresthetica is symptomatic and supportive.
The majority of cases improve with conservative treatment by wearing looser clothing and losing weight.
Medications used to treat neurogenic pain, such as anti-seizure or anti-depressant medications, may alleviate symptoms of pain.
In a few cases, in which pain is persistent or severe, surgical intervention may be indicated.
Who is at risk?
It is estimated that one in every 25,000 babies born in the United States will have some form of the mucopolysaccharidoses.
They are autosomal recessive disorders, meaning that only individuals inheriting the defective gene from both parents are affected.
The exception is MPS II, or Hunter syndrome, in which the mother alone passes along the defective gene to a son.
When both people in a couple have the defective gene, each pregnancy carries with it a one in four chance that the child will be affected.
The parents and siblings of an affected child may have no sign of the disorder.
Unaffected siblings and select relatives of a child with one of the mucopolysaccharidoses may carry the recessive gene and could pass it to their own children.
What is Carney triad?
Carney triad is a syndrome characterized by the occurrence of GIST, lung chondromas, and paragangliomas.
What is the prognosis for Developmental Dyspraxia?
Developmental dyspraxia is a lifelong disorder.
Many individuals are able to compensate for their disabilities through occupational and speech therapy.
Is there any treatment for Agnosia?
Treatment is generally symptomatic and supportive.
The primary cause of the disorder should be determined in order to treat other problems that may contribute to or result in agnosia.
How is the cause of diarrhea diagnosed?
If acute diarrhea lasts 2 days or less, diagnostic tests are usually not necessary.
If diarrhea lasts longer or is accompanied by symptoms such as fever or bloody stools, a doctor may perform tests to determine the cause.
Why do I need to get these shots?
Vaccines don't just protect you - they can also protect the people around you.
Some people in your family or community may not be able to get certain vaccines because of their age or health condition.
How Is Mitral Valve Prolapse Diagnosed?
However, these abnormal heart sounds may come and go.
Your doctor may not hear them at the time of an exam, even if you have MVP.
Thus, you also may have tests and procedures to diagnose MVP.
What Is Chest MRI?
Chest MRI magnetic resonance imaging is a safe, noninvasive test.
Noninvasive means that no surgery is done and no instruments are inserted into your body.
This test creates detailed pictures of the structures in your chest, such as your chest wall, heart, and blood vessels.
What should I do if I believe my child has put lead jewelry in their mouth?
See your health care provider.
He or she can perform a blood test to see whether your child has been exposed to lead and recommend treatment if necessary.
Most children with elevated blood-lead levels do not have any symptoms.
However, there is no safe level of lead in blood.
As blood-lead levels increase, a larger effect on children's learning and behavior will occur.
A blood-lead test is the only way to know if your child has an elevated lead level.
What research is being done for Giant Axonal Neuropathy?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS supports research related to GAN through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure inherited neurological disorders such as GAN.
What is Fibrous dysplasia FD?
Fibrous dysplasia FD is a skeletal disorder in which bone-forming cells fail to mature and produce too much fibrous, or connective, tissue.
What is Viral conjunctivitis caused by?
Viral conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with a virus.
How is gastritis treated?
Treating H.
pylori infections is important, even if a person is not experiencing symptoms from the infection.
Untreated H.
pylori gastritis may lead to cancer or the development of ulcers in the stomach or small intestine.
The most common treatment is a triple therapy that combines a PPI and two antibiotics - usually amoxicillin and clarithromycin - to kill the bacteria.
Treatment may also include bismuth subsalicylate Pepto-Bismol to help kill bacteria.
How is indigestion diagnosed?
The doctor may perform an upper endoscopy.
After giving a sedative to help the person become drowsy, the doctor passes an endoscope - a long, thin tube that has a light and small camera on the end - through the mouth and gently guides it down the esophagus into the stomach.
The doctor can look at the esophagus and stomach with the endoscope to check for any abnormalities.
The doctor may perform biopsies - removing small pieces of tissue for examination with a microscope - to look for possible damage from GERD or an infection.
What is Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome?
Wernicke's encephalopathy is a degenerative brain disorder caused by the lack of thiamine vitamin B1.
It may result from alcohol abuse, dietary deficiencies, prolonged vomiting, eating disorders, or the effects of chemotherapy.
Symptoms include mental confusion, vision impairment, stupor, coma, hypothermia, hypotension, and ataxia.
Korsakoff's amnesic syndrome-a memory disorder-also results from a deficiency of thiamine, and is associated with alcoholism.
The heart, vascular, and nervous system are involved.
Symptoms include amnesia, confabulation, attention deficit, disorientation, and vision impairment.
The main features of Korsakoff's amnesic syndrome are the impairments in acquiring new information or establishing new memories, and in retrieving previous memories.
Although Wernicke's and Korsakoff's may appear to be two different disorders, they are generally considered to be different stages of the same disorder, which is called Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome.
Wernicke's encephalopathy represents the acute phase of the disorder, and Korsakoff's amnesic syndrome represents the chronic phase.
How is TSC treated?
There is no cure for TSC, although treatment is available for a number of the symptoms.
Antiepileptic drugs may be used to control seizures.
Vigabatrin is a particularly useful medication in TSC, and has been approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration FDA for treatment of infantile spams in TSC, although it has significant side effects.
The FDA has approved the drug everolimus Afinitor to treat subependymal giant cell astrocytomas SEGA brain tumors and angiomyolipoma kidney tumors.
Specific medications may be prescribed for behavior problems.
Intervention programs including special schooling and occupational therapy may benefit individuals with special needs and developmental issues.
Surgery may be needed in case of complications connected to tubers, SEN or SEGA, as well as in risk of hemorrhage from kidney tumors.
Respiratory insufficiency due to LAM can be treated with supplemental oxygen therapy or lung transplantation if severe.
Is there any treatment for Cerebellar Hypoplasia?
There is no standard course of treatment for cerebellar hypoplasia.
Treatment depends upon the underlying disorder and the severity of symptoms.
Generally, treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
How can I get my cholesterol checked?
During the test, a nurse will take a small sample of blood from your finger or arm.
Be sure not to eat or dink anything except water or sugar-free drinks for 9 to 12 hours before a lipid profile test.
What is Leigh's disease?
Leigh's disease is a rare inherited neurometabolic disorder that affects the central nervous system.
What research is being done for Friedreich's?
Studies have revealed that frataxin is an important mitochondrial protein for proper function of several organs.
Yet in people with the disease, the amount of frataxin in affected cells is severely reduced.
It is believed that the loss of frataxin makes the nervous system, heart, and pancreas particularly susceptible to damage from free radicals produced when the excess iron reacts with oxygen.
Once certain cells in these tissues are destroyed by free radicals they cannot be replaced.
Nerve and muscle cells also have metabolic needs that may make them particularly vulnerable to this damage.
Free radicals have been implicated in other degenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases.
What is A lipoprotein panel?
A lipoprotein panel is a blood test that can help show whether you're at risk for coronary heart disease CHD.
Who Is at Risk for Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia?
Many babies who develop BPD are born with serious respiratory distress syndrome RDS.
However, some babies who have mild RDS or don't have RDS also develop BPD.
These babies often have very low birth weights and one or more other conditions, such as patent ductus arteriosus PDA and sepsis.
What Is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation?
In DIC, the increased clotting uses up platelets PLATE-lets and clotting factors in the blood.
Platelets are blood cell fragments that stick together to seal small cuts and breaks on blood vessel walls and stop bleeding.
Clotting factors are proteins needed for normal blood clotting.
Who Needs Treatment for Atrial Fibrillation?
Repeat episodes of AF tend to cause changes to the heart's electrical system, leading to persistent or permanent AF.
Most people who have persistent or permanent AF need treatment to control their heart rate and prevent complications.
How can I catch measles?
Measles is highly contagious.
Infected people are usually contagious from about 4 days before their rash starts to 4 days afterwards.
The measles virus resides in the mucus in the nose and throat of infected people.
When they sneeze or cough, droplets spray into the air and the droplets remain active and contagious on infected surfaces for up to 2 hours.
How is Menetrier's disease diagnosed?
Health care providers base the diagnosis of Menetrier's disease on a combination of symptoms, lab findings, findings on upper gastrointestinal GI endoscopy, and stomach biopsy results.
A health care provider will begin the diagnosis of Menetrier's disease by taking a patient's medical and family history and performing a physical exam.
However, a health care provider will confirm the diagnosis of Menetrier's disease through a computerized tomography CT scan, an upper GI endoscopy, and a biopsy of stomach tissue.
A health care provider also may order blood tests to check for infection with H.
pylori or CMV.
What research is being done for Encephalopathy?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on brain diseases.
Much of this research is aimed at characterizing the agents that cause these disorders, clarifying the mechanisms underlying them, and, ultimately, finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
What research is being done for Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to ADEM in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure demyelinating disorders such as ADEM.
What is Echocardiography echo?
Echocardiography echo is the main test for diagnosing heart valve disease.
What is Colonoscopy?
Colonoscopy is a test that uses a long, flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end to look inside the rectum and entire colon.
What Is the Strategic Alliance for Health?
Each year 7 out of 10 deaths among Americans are from chronic diseases.
In efforts to combat chronic diseases, CDC's Healthy Communities Program funded 14 communities in 2008 to form the Strategic Alliance for Health.
By working collaboratively with key partners, the funded communities are creating healthier communities through sustainable, innovative, and evidence- and practice-based community health promotion and chronic disease prevention programs that promote policy, systems, and environmental change and help achieve the Healthy People 2010 objectives.
For a 5-year period, all Strategic Alliance for Health communities focus their efforts on schools and one or more areas, such as community, work site, or health care sectors.
Also, the communities serve as mentors to other communities by developing and implementing action guides for evidence- and practice-based strategies that combat chronic diseases.
What are the symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease?
The neuropathy of CMT affects both motor and sensory nerves.
Motor nerves cause muscles to contract and control voluntary muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing, and swallowing.
A typical feature includes weakness of the foot and lower leg muscles, which may result in foot drop and a high-stepped gait with frequent tripping or falls.
Foot deformities, such as high arches and hammertoes a condition in which the middle joint of a toe bends upwards are also characteristic due to weakness of the small muscles in the feet.
In addition, the lower legs may take on an inverted champagne bottle appearance due to the loss of muscle bulk.
Later in the disease, weakness and muscle atrophy may occur in the hands, resulting in difficulty with carrying out fine motor skills the coordination of small movements usually in the fingers, hands, wrists, feet, and tongue.
How Can Osteoporosis Be Prevented?
Talk to your doctor if you have a family history of osteoporosis or other factors that may put you at increased risk for the disease.
Your doctor may suggest that you have your bone density measured through a safe test that can determine your risk for fractures broken bones and measure your response to osteoporosis treatment.
The most widely recognized bone mineral density test BMD is called a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, or DXA test.
The BMD test is painless, a bit like having an x-ray, but with much less exposure to radiation.
It can measure bone density at your hip and spine.
Where can The MECP2 gene be found?
The MECP2 gene is found on a person's X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes.
What is the prognosis for Coffin Lowry Syndrome?
The prognosis for individuals with Coffin-Lowry syndrome varies depending on the severity of symptoms.
Early intervention may improve the outlook for patients.
Life span is reduced in some individuals with Coffin-Lowry syndrome.
What is Cerebellar hypoplasia?
Cerebellar hypoplasia is a neurological condition in which the cerebellum is smaller than usual or not completely developed.
Will I be tested automatically?
Yes.
Most donors will only be tested once and if the result of their test is negative for Chagas disease, they will not be tested when they donate again.
What research is being done for Myoclonus?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research relating to myoclonus in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Scientists are seeking to understand the underlying biochemical basis of involuntary movements and to find the most effective treatment for myoclonus and other movement disorders.
Researchers may be able to develop drug treatments that target specific biochemical changes involved in myoclonus.
By combining several of these drugs, scientists hope to achieve greater control of myoclonic symptoms.
What should you expect before a Chest X Ray?
Let your doctor know if you're pregnant or may be pregnant.
In general, women should avoid all x-ray tests during pregnancy.
Sometimes, though, having an x ray is important to the health of the mother and fetus.
If an x ray is needed, the technician will take extra steps to protect the fetus from radiation.
What is the prognosis for Spinal Cord Injury?
Spinal cord injuries are classified as either complete or incomplete.
An incomplete injury means that the ability of the spinal cord to convey messages to or from the brain is not completely lost.
People with incomplete injuries retain some motor or sensory function below the injury.
A complete injury is indicated by a total lack of sensory and motor function below the level of injury.
People who survive a spinal cord injury will most likely have medical complications such as chronic pain and bladder and bowel dysfunction, along with an increased susceptibility to respiratory and heart problems.
Successful recovery depends upon how well these chronic conditions are handled day to day.
What is A family reunion?
A family reunion is a good time to share family history - people, events, places, and dates.
What are some of the common indoor molds?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33566871.xml:
What are the signs of syphilis?
The second stage may include a rash on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, sores in the throat or mouth, fever, or patchy hair loss.
What is Whipple's disease?
Whipple's disease is a multi-system infectious bacterial disease that interferes with the body's ability to metabolize fats.
What Are the Risks of a Blood Transfusion?
Most blood transfusions go very smoothly.
Sometimes mild problems can occur.
Very rarely, serious problems occur.
Why Does Bone Health Matter?
Our bones support us and allow us to move.
They protect our brain, heart, and other organs from injury.
Our bones also store minerals such as calcium and phosphorous, which help keep our bones strong, and release them into the body when we need them for other uses.
Can back pain be prevented?
The use of wide elastic belts that can be tightened to 'pull in' lumbar and abdominal muscles to prevent low back pain remains controversial.
A landmark study of the use of lumbar support or abdominal support belts worn by persons who lift or move merchandise found no evidence that the belts reduce back injury or back pain.
The 2-year study, reported by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health NIOSH in December 2000, found no statistically significant difference in either the incidence of workers' compensation claims for job-related back injuries or the incidence of self-reported pain among workers who reported they wore back belts daily compared to those workers who reported never using back belts or reported using them only once or twice a month.
When should people with foodborne illnesses see a health care provider?
If a child has a foodborne illness, parents or guardians should not hesitate to call a health care provider for advice.
How are motor neuron diseases treated?
Other medicines may help with symptoms.
Muscle relaxants such as baclofen, tizanidine, and the benzodiazepines may reduce spasticity.
Botulinum toxin may be used to treat jaw spasms or drooling.
Excessive saliva can be treated with amitriptyline, glycopyolate, and atropine or by botulinum injections into the salivary glands.
Combinations of dextromethorphan and quinidine have been shown to reduce pseudobulbar affect.
Anticonvulsants and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may help relieve pain, and antidepressants may be helpful in treating depression.
Panic attacks can be treated with benzodiazepines.
Some individuals may eventually require stronger medicines such as morphine to cope with musculoskeletal abnormalities or pain, and opiates are used to provide comfort care in terminal stages of the disease.
What Causes Sickle Cell Anemia?
Sickle hemoglobin causes red blood cells to develop a sickle, or crescent, shape.
Sickle cells are stiff and sticky.
They tend to block blood flow in the blood vessels of the limbs and organs.
Blocked blood flow can cause pain and organ damage.
It can also raise the risk for infection.
Who Needs Carotid Ultrasound?
Have an abnormal sound called a carotid bruit broo-E in one of your carotid arteries.
Your doctor can hear a carotid bruit using a stethoscope.
A bruit might suggest a partial blockage in your carotid artery, which could lead to a stroke.
Is there any treatment for Isaacs' Syndrome?
Anticonvulsants, including phenytoin and carbamazepine, usually provide significant relief from the stiffness, muscle spasms, and pain associated with Isaacs' syndrome.
Plasma exchange may provide short-term relief for individuals with some forms of the acquired disorder.
What is Norovirus?
Norovirus is the leading cause of disease outbreaks from contaminated food in the Unisted States.
What is Alzheimer's disease?
Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia among older adults.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Who should get tested for Hepatitis B?
Anyone born in the United States, who was not vaccinated at birth, and has at least one parent born in East or Southeast Asia except Japan or the Pacific Islands except New Zealand and Australia.
Why Are ASDs Increasing?
At CDC, we know that people want answers to what is causing this increase, and so do we.
The reasons for the increase in the identified prevalence of ASDs are not understood completely.
Some of the increase is due to the way children are identified, diagnosed, and served in their local communities, although exactly how much is due to these factors is unknown.
Also, it is likely that reported increases are explained partly by greater awareness by doctors, teachers, and parents.
To understand more, CDC will keep guiding and conducting research into what is putting our children at risk.
What other symptoms might I have with diarrhea?
Being dehydrated means your body does not have enough fluid to work properly.
Every time you have a bowel movement, you lose fluids.
Diarrhea causes you to lose even more fluids.
You also lose salts and minerals such as sodium, chloride, and potassium.
These salts and minerals affect the amount of water that stays in your body.
What is the prognosis for Zellweger Syndrome?
The prognosis for infants with Zellweger syndrome is poor.
Most infants do not survive past the first 6 months, and usually succumb to respiratory distress, gastrointestinal bleeding, or liver failure.
What is Crohn's disease?
Crohn's disease is a disease that causes inflammation and irritation of any part of the GI tract.
What research is being done for Lissencephaly?
The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex systems of normal brain development, including neuronal migration.
Recent studies have identified genes that are responsible for lissencephaly.
The knowledge gained from these studies provides the foundation for developing treatments and preventive measures for neuronal migration disorders.
Who Is at Risk for Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome?
Some people have APS antibodies, but don't ever have signs or symptoms of the disorder.
Having APS antibodies doesn't mean that you have APS.
To be diagnosed with APS, you must have APS antibodies and a history of health problems related to the disorder.
What is Sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a disorder of interrupted breathing during sleep.
What Causes Hemochromatosis?
The two types of hemochromatosis are primary and secondary.
Each type has a different cause.
How Is Sleep Apnea Diagnosed?
Doctors diagnose sleep apnea based on medical and family histories, a physical exam, and sleep study results.
Your primary care doctor may evaluate your symptoms first.
He or she will then decide whether you need to see a sleep specialist.
When does my child need shots?
Ask the doctor for a list of the shots your child has received.
Keep the list in a safe place - you will need it for school and other activities.
Is there any treatment for Myopathy?
Treatments for the myopathies depend on the disease or condition and specific causes.
Supportive and symptomatic treatment may be the only treatment available or necessary for some disorders.
Treatment for other disorders may include drug therapy, such as immunosuppressives, physical therapy, bracing to support weakened muscles, and surgery.
What Is Pulmonary Embolism?
Pulmonary embolism PULL-mun-ary EM-bo-lizm, or PE, is a sudden blockage in a lung artery.
The blockage usually is caused by a blood clot that travels to the lung from a vein in the leg.
What are Transmission in lab animals?
Transmission in lab animals is a measure of the ability of an influenza virus to transmit efficiently in animals in laboratory studies.
What should you expect after Catheter Ablation?
You'll be connected to devices that measure your heart's electrical activity and blood pressure.
Nurses will regularly check these monitors.
Nurses also will check to make sure that you're not bleeding from the catheter insertion site.
Where can I find more information on canine influenza virus?
More information on canine influenza in pet dogs can be found in this article: Influenza A Virus H3N8 in Dogs with Respiratory Disease, Florida in Emerging Infectious Diseases journal.
Is there any treatment for Thyrotoxic Myopathy?
Treatment involves restoring normal levels of thyroid hormone and may include thyroid drugs, radioactive iodine, and sometimes partial or complete surgical removal of the thyroid.
What is Swine influenza swine flu?
Swine influenza swine flu is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by type A influenza viruses that regularly cause outbreaks of influenza in pigs.
What Is Paget's Disease of Bone?
Paget's disease of bone is a chronic disorder in which excessive breakdown and formation of bone tissue can lead to bone enlargement, weakening, and fractures, as well as pain and arthritis in the joints near the affected bones see box Bone Biology.
What is iron and why do we need it?
Iron is a mineral needed by our bodies.
Iron is a part of all cells and does many things in our bodies.
For example, iron as part of the protein hemoglobin carries oxygen from our lungs throughout our bodies.
Having too little hemoglobin is called anemia.
Iron also helps our muscles store and use oxygen.
What does Stage IV refers to disease that refer to?
Stage IV refers to disease that is diffusely spread throughout an extranodal site, such as the liver.
What is MICROCEPHALY?
MICROCEPHALY is a neurological disorder in which the circumference of the head is smaller than average for the age and gender of the infant or child.
Where can I find Most of the sodium we eat?
Most of the sodium we eat is in the form of salt.
How Is Polycythemia Vera Treated?
Polycythemia vera PV doesn't have a cure.
However, treatments can help control the disease and its complications.
PV is treated with procedures, medicines, and other methods.
You may need one or more treatments to manage the disease.
Does my infant or child need this vaccine?
For additional details, consult the Polio Vaccine Information Statement and the Childhood Immunization Schedule.
How are the peripheral neuropathies classified?
More than 100 types of peripheral neuropathy have been identified, each with its own characteristic set of symptoms, pattern of development, and prognosis.
Impaired function and symptoms depend on the type of nerves-motor, sensory, or autonomic-that are damaged.
Motor nerves control movements of all muscles under conscious control, such as those used for walking, grasping things, or talking.
Sensory nerves transmit information about sensory experiences, such as the feeling of a light touch or the pain resulting from a cut.
Autonomic nerves regulate biological activities that people do not control consciously, such as breathing, digesting food, and heart and gland functions.
Although some neuropathies may affect all three types of nerves, others primarily affect one or two types.
Therefore, doctors may use terms such as predominantly motor neuropathy, predominantly sensory neuropathy, sensory-motor neuropathy, or autonomic neuropathy to describe a patient's condition.
What is High blood pressure?
High blood pressure is a risk factor for coronary heart disease and stroke, two of the leading causes of death among Americans.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Who Is at Risk for LAM?
LAM is a rare disease that mostly affects women of childbearing age.
Many women who develop LAM are between the ages of 20 and 40 when they begin to have symptoms.
LAM can occur in older women as well, although this is less common.
Are you among the almost 90 million Americans who get their tap water from a community water system that uses ground water?
Seventy-seven percent of community water systems in the United States use ground water as their primary source, supplying drinking water to 30% of community water system users, or almost 90 million Americans.
The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency EPA sets maximum concentration levels for many water pollutants and regulates drinking water quality in public water systems, including community water systems.
You can find out more about your local drinking water quality and possible contaminants by viewing your consumer confidence report CCR, which every utility company is required to provide to its customers.
What research is being done for Angelman Syndrome?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on neurogenetic disorders such as Angelman syndrome, to develop techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure them.
What is CDC doing?
CDC promotes collaboration between birth defects tracking programs and newborn screening programs for CCHD screening activities.
State birth defects programs collect data on CHDs and could help evaluate the effectiveness of screening by looking at false positives babies who failed the CCHD screening but do not actually have a CCHD after further evaluation and false negatives babies who passed the screen suggesting there was no CCHD but actually did have a CCHD.
What are Hereditary Neuropathies?
Hereditary neuropathies are a group of inherited disorders affecting the peripheral nervous system.
The hereditary neuropathies are divided into four major subcategories: hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy, hereditary sensory neuropathy, hereditary motor neuropathy, and hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy.
The most common type is Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, one of the hereditary motor and sensory neuropathies.
Symptoms of the hereditary neuropathies vary according to the type and may include sensory symptoms such as numbness, tingling, and pain in the feet and hands; or motor symptoms such as weakness and loss of muscle bulk, particularly in the lower leg and feet muscles.
Certain types of hereditary neuropathies can affect the autonomic nerves, resulting in impaired sweating, postural hypotension, or insensitivity to pain.
Some people may have foot deformities such as high arches and hammer toes, thin calf muscles having the appearance of an inverted champagne glass or scoliosis curvature of the spine.
The symptoms of hereditary neuropathies may be apparent at birth or appear in middle or late life.
They can vary among different family members, with some family members being more severely affected than others.
The hereditary neuropathies can be diagnosed by blood tests for genetic testing, nerve conduction studies, and nerve biopsies.
What is the prognosis for Moyamoya Disease?
Without surgery, the majority of individuals with Moyamoya disease will experience mental decline and multiple strokes because of the progressive narrowing of arteries.
Without treatment, Moyamoya disease can be fatal as the result of intracerebral hemorrhage.
What is Angina also?
Angina also is a common symptom of CHD.
What research is being done for Machado-Joseph Disease?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts MJD research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH and also supports MJD research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Ongoing research includes studies to better understand the genetic, molecular, and cellular mechanisms that underlie inherited neurodegenerative diseases such as MJD.
Other research areas include the development of novel therapies to treat the symptoms of MJD, efforts to identify diagnostic markers and to improve current diagnostic procedures for the disease, and population studies to identify affected families.
What is the prognosis for Monomelic Amyotrophy?
The symptoms of MMA usually progress slowly for one to two years before reaching a plateau, and then remain stable for many years.
Disability is generally slight.
Rarely, the weakness progresses to the opposite limb.
There is also a slowly progressive variant of MMA known as O'Sullivan-McLeod syndrome, which only affects the small muscles of the hand and forearm and has a slowly progressive course.
What is the prognosis for Colpocephaly?
The prognosis for individuals with colpocephaly depends on the severity of the associated conditions and the degree of abnormal brain development.
Some children benefit from special education.
What are the symptoms?
Most cerebral aneurysms do not show symptoms until they either become very large or burst.
Small, unchanging aneurysms generally will not produce symptoms, whereas a larger aneurysm that is steadily growing may press on tissues and nerves.
Symptoms may include pain above and behind the eye; numbness, weakness, or paralysis on one side of the face; dilated pupils; and vision changes.
When an aneurysm hemorrhages, an individual may experience a sudden and extremely severe headache, double vision, nausea, vomiting, stiff neck, and/or loss of consciousness.
Individuals usually describe the headache as 'the worst headache of my life' and it is generally different in severity and intensity from other headaches people may experience.
'Sentinel' or warning headaches may result from an aneurysm that leaks for days to weeks prior to rupture.
Only a minority of individuals have a sentinel headache prior to aneurysm rupture.
What happens during a well-woman visit?
Your well-woman visit is a chance to focus on your overall health and wellness.
There are 3 main goals for the visit:
How is syringomyelia diagnosed?
Diagnostic imaging has significantly increased the number of syringomyelia cases detected in the beginning stages of the disorder.
Physicians primarily use magnetic resonance imaging MRI to diagnose syringomyelia.
Computer-generated radio waves and a powerful magnetic field produce images of body structures, such as the brain and spinal cord, in vivid detail.
This test will show the syrinx in the spine as well as other conditions, such as the presence of a tumor.
Images taken in rapid succession can be used for 'dynamic imaging' in 'cine mode' to observe the fluid flowing around the spinal cord and within the syrinx.
Computed tomography CT, which uses x-rays and a computerized scanner to produce cross-sectional images of the body or an organ structure, may reveal the presence of tumors and other abnormalities such as hydrocephalus.
Another test, called a myelogram, takes x-ray-like pictures and requires a contrast medium or dye to do so.
Since the introduction of MRI this test is rarely necessary to diagnose syringomyelia.
Where is Hepatitis E?
Hepatitis E is a virus found in domestic and wild animals, particularly pigs, and can cause hepatitis in humans.
What is Hormone therapy?
Hormone therapy is a cancer treatment that removes hormones or blocks their action and stops cancer cells from growing.
What are the symptoms of peptic ulcers?
A dull or burning pain in your stomach is the most common symptom of peptic ulcers.
You may feel the pain anywhere between your belly button and breastbone.
The pain often.
What Causes Paget's Disease?
Doctors are not sure what causes Paget's disease.
They think that a virus may cause it in some cases.
It also tends to run in families.
Your doctor might suggest that your brothers, sisters, and children have blood tests every 2 or 3 years starting at the age of 40 to check for the disease.
What research is being done for Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome Disorder?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH support research related to AGS through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Current research is aimed at finding new methods for treating and ultimately preventing or curing AGS.
What is Hemolytic uremic syndrome?
Hemolytic uremic syndrome is a rare disease that mostly affects children younger than 10 years of age.
What are the symptoms of lactose intolerance?
Symptoms occur 30 minutes to 2 hours after consuming milk or milk products.
Symptoms range from mild to severe based on the amount of lactose the person ate or drank and the amount a person can tolerate.
How Is Marfan Syndrome Treated?
Marfan syndrome can affect many parts of your body, including your heart, bones and joints, eyes, nervous system, and lungs.
The type of treatment you receive will depend on your signs and symptoms.
What is A ventilator often used for?
A ventilator often is used for short periods, such as during surgery when you're under general anesthesia AN-es-THE-ze-ah.
What Are the Risks of Bone Marrow Tests?
To prevent infections, don't shower or bathe for the first day after the tests.
After 24 hours, you can take off the bandage.
Call your doctor if you develop a fever, have a lot of pain, or see redness, swelling, or discharge at the site.
These are signs of infection.
How are the mucolipidoses diagnosed?
Prenatal diagnosis for ML is accomplished using a procedure known as chorionic villus sampling, or CVS.
It is usually done around the 8th or 10th week of pregnancy and involves removing and testing a very small sample of the placenta.
For ML types I, II, and III, placental cells called amniocytes are grown in culture and then tested to measure enzyme activity levels.
For ML IV, no culture is required.
DNA is obtained directly from the amniocytes and analyzed to find if mutations consistent with ML IV have occurred in the DNA.
This technique is called genotyping.
What research is being done for Restless Legs Syndrome?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct and support RLS research in laboratories at the NIH and at major medical institutions across the country.
The goal of this research is to increase scientific understanding of RLS, find improved methods of diagnosing and treating the syndrome, and discover ways to prevent it.
Who Is at Risk for Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation?
Disseminated intravascular coagulation DIC is the result of an underlying disease or condition.
People who have one or more of the following conditions are most likely to develop DIC:
Can you get Hepatitis C by getting a tattoo or piercing?
A few major research studies have not shown Hepatitis C to be spread through licensed, commercial tattooing facilities.
However, transmission of Hepatitis C and other infectious diseases is possible when poor infection-control practices are used during tattooing or piercing.
Body art is becoming increasingly popular in the United States, and unregulated tattooing and piercing are known to occur in prisons and other informal or unregulated settings.
Further research is needed to determine if these types of settings and exposures are responsible for Hepatitis C virus transmission.
What is Infantile Refsum Disease?
Infantile Refsum disease IRD is a medical condition within the Zellweger spectrum of perixisome biogenesis disorders PBDs, inherited genetic disorders that damage the white matter of the brain and affect motor movements.
PBDs are part of a larger group of disorders called the leukodystrophies.
The Zellweger spectrum of PBDs include related, but not more severe, disorders referred to as Zellweger syndrome ZS and neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy.
Collectively, these disorders are caused by inherited defects in any one of 12 genes, called PEX genes, which are required for the normal formation and function of peroxisomes.
Peroxisomes are cell structures required for the normal formation and function of the brain, eyes, liver, kidneys, and bone.
They contain enzymes that break down toxic substances in the cells, including very long chain fatty acids and phytanic acid a type of fat found in certain foods, and synthesize certain fatty materials lipids that are required for cell function.
When peroxisomes are not functioning, there is over-accumulation of very long chain fatty acids and phytanic acid, and a lack of bile acids and plasmalogens--specialized lipids found in cell membranes and the myelin sheaths and encase and protect nerve fibers.
IRD has some residual perixisome function, resulting in less severe disease than in Zellweger syndrome.
Symptoms of IRD begin in infancy with retinitis pigmentosa, a visual impairment that often leads to blindness, and hearing problems that usually progress to deafness by early childhood.
Other symptoms may include rapid, jerky eye movements nystagmus; floppy muscle tone hypotonia and lack of muscle coordination ataxia; mental and growth disabilities; abnormal facial features; enlarged liver; and white matter abnormalities of brain myelin.
At the mildest extreme of the disorder, intellect may be preserved.
Although Adult Refsum disease and IRD have similar names, they are separate disorders caused by different gene defects.
4.
Is it true that muscle weighs more than fat? If so, will I gain weight when I start strength training if I don't go on a diet?
Unless you increase the amount of calories you are eating, it is very unlikely that you will gain weight or become bulky.
Here's why: one pound equals one pound regardless of whether the pound is fat, muscle, or some other substance like butter or steel.
Muscle is denser and therefore takes up a smaller amount of space per pound than fat.
Some scientists estimate that the space that one pound of muscle occupies is about 22% less than one pound of fat! If you begin strength training and continue to eat the same number of calories, you may lose some weight because you're burning additional calories while exercising.
The important thing about strength training is the change in body composition.
You will gain muscle and most likely decrease body fat even if your body weight stays the same.
In our experience, people might drop a size or two after they have been strength training for a couple of months because their body shape has changed for the better.
If your goal in starting strength training is to gain weight, we recommend you also increase the number of calories you are consuming.
Try adding an extra fruit, vegetable, low-fat dairy and/or whole grain serving to your daily diet.
What is A related procedure?
A related procedure is an occlusion, in which the surgeon clamps off occludes the entire artery that leads to the aneurysm.
How Is Heart Disease Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose coronary heart disease CHD based on your medical and family histories, your risk factors, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures.
Are You at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes?
Belong to certain racial or ethnic groups.
African Americans, Hispanic/Latino, American Indians, and some Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders are at particularly high risk for type 2 diabetes.
What is Cerebral Atrophy?
Cerebral atrophy is a common feature of many of the diseases that affect the brain.
Atrophy of any tissue means loss of cells.
In brain tissue, atrophy describes a loss of neurons and the connections between them.
Atrophy can be generalized, which means that all of the brain has shrunk; or it can be focal, affecting only a limited area of the brain and resulting in a decrease of the functions that area of the brain controls.
If the cerebral hemispheres the two lobes of the brain that form the cerebrum are affected, conscious thought and voluntary processes may be impaired.
What is Multiple Sclerosis?
Most people experience their first symptoms of MS between the ages of 20 and 40; the initial symptom of MS is often blurred or double vision, red-green color distortion, or even blindness in one eye.
Most MS patients experience muscle weakness in their extremities and difficulty with coordination and balance.
These symptoms may be severe enough to impair walking or even standing.
In the worst cases, MS can produce partial or complete paralysis.
Most people with MS also exhibit paresthesias, transitory abnormal sensory feelings such as numbness, prickling, or pins and needles sensations.
Some may also experience pain.
Speech impediments, tremors, and dizziness are other frequent complaints.
Occasionally, people with MS have hearing loss.
Approximately half of all people with MS experience cognitive impairments such as difficulties with concentration, attention, memory, and poor judgment, but such symptoms are usually mild and are frequently overlooked.
Depression is another common feature of MS.
What is Piriformis syndrome?
Piriformis syndrome is a rare neuromuscular disorder that occurs when the piriformis muscle compresses or irritates the sciatic nerve-the largest nerve in the body.
What is Dermatitis herpetiformis DH?
Dermatitis herpetiformis DH is a chronic, intensely itchy, blistering skin manifestation of gluten-sensitive enteropathy, commonly known as celiac disease.
What is the risk of gettingSalmonella from live poultry?
It's common for chickens, ducks, and other poultry to carry Salmonella.
Salmonella is a type of germ that naturally lives in the intestines of poultry and many other animals.
Even organically fed poultry can have Salmonella.
While it usually doesn't make the birds sick, Salmonella can cause serious illness when it is passed to people.
What is the prognosis for Swallowing Disorders?
The prognosis depends upon the type of swallowing problem and the course of the neurological disorder that produces it.
In some cases, dysphagia can be partially or completely corrected using diet manipulation or non-invasive methods.
In others, especially when the dysphagia is causing aspiration and preventing adequate nutrition and causing weight loss, it may require aggressive intervention such as a feeding tube.
For those with progressive degenerative neurological disorders, dysphagia will be only one in a cluster of symptoms and disabilities that have to be treated.
What is Barth syndrome BTHS?
Barth syndrome BTHS is a rare, genetic disorder of lipid metabolism that primarily affects males.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome?
Blood clots can form in, or travel to, the arteries or veins in the brain, heart, kidneys, lungs, and limbs.
Clots can reduce or block blood flow, damaging the body's organs and possibly causing death.
How is a giardiasis diagnosed?
Your health care provider will ask you to submit stool poop samples to see if you are infected.
Because testing for giardiasis can be difficult, you may be asked to submit several stool specimens collected over several days.
What causes stress?
Stress is often caused by some type of change.
Even positive changes, like winning a contest or getting a job promotion, can be stressful.
Stress can be short-term or long-term.
How Is Heart Block Diagnosed?
Heart block might be diagnosed as part of a routine doctor's visit or during an emergency situation.
Third-degree heart block often is an emergency..
How are febrile seizures diagnosed and treated?
Before diagnosing febrile seizures in infants and children, doctors sometimes perform tests to be sure that seizures are not caused by something other than simply the fever itself.
For example, if a doctor suspects the child has meningitis an infection of the membranes surrounding the brain, a spinal tap may be needed to check for signs of the infection in the cerebrospinal fluid fluid that bathes the brain and spinal cord.
If there has been severe diarrhea or vomiting, dehydration could be responsible for seizures.
Also, doctors often perform other tests such as examining the blood and urine to pinpoint the cause of the child's fever.
What is High blood pressure?
High blood pressure is the most important risk factor for stroke.
How Can Pericarditis Be Prevented?
You usually can't prevent acute pericarditis.
You can take steps to reduce your chance of having another acute episode, having complications, or getting chronic pericarditis.
How Is Cardiomyopathy Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose cardiomyopathy based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures.
What is the prognosis for Complex Regional Pain Syndrome?
The prognosis for CRPS varies from person to person.
Spontaneous remission from symptoms occurs in certain individuals.
Others can have unremitting pain and crippling, irreversible changes in spite of treatment.
What is the prognosis for Central Pontine Myelinolysis?
The prognosis for myelinolysis is variable.
Some individuals die and others recover completely.
Although the disorder was originally considered to have a mortality rate of 50 percent or more, improved imaging techniques and early diagnosis have led to a better prognosis for many people.
Most individuals improve gradually, but still continue to have challenges with speech, walking, emotional ups and downs, and forgetfulness.
Is there any treatment for Reye's Syndrome?
There is no cure for RS.
Successful management, which depends on early diagnosis, is primarily aimed at protecting the brain against irreversible damage by reducing brain swelling, reversing the metabolic injury, preventing complications in the lungs, and anticipating cardiac arrest.
It has been learned that several inborn errors of metabolism mimic RS in that the first manifestation of these errors may be an encephalopathy with liver dysfunction.
These disorders must be considered in all suspected cases of RS.
Some evidence suggests that treatment in the end stages of RS with hypertonic IV glucose solutions may prevent progression of the syndrome.
What isH.
pylori?
H.
pylori causes more than half of peptic ulcers worldwide.
The bacterium causes peptic ulcers by damaging the mucous coating that protects the stomach and duodenum.
Damage to the mucous coating allows powerful stomach acid to get through to the sensitive lining beneath.
Together, the stomach acid and H.
pylori irritate the lining of the stomach or duodenum and cause an ulcer.
Is there any treatment for Primary Lateral Sclerosis?
Treatment for individuals with PLS is symptomatic.
Muscle relaxants such as baclofen, tizanidine, and the benzodiazepines may reduce spasticity.
Other drugs may relieve pain and antidepressants can help treat depression.
Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and rehabilitation may prevent joint immobility and slow muscle weakness and atrophy.
Assistive devices such as supports or braces, speech synthesizers, and wheelchairs ma help some people retain independence.
Speech therapy may be useful for those with involvement of the facial muscles.
How is COPD treated?
Treatment of COPD requires a careful and thorough evaluation by a physician.
COPD treatment can alleviate symptoms, decrease the frequency and severity of exacerbations, and increase exercise tolerance.
For those who smoke, the most important aspect of treatment is smoking cessation.
Avoiding tobacco smoke and removing other air pollutants from the patient's home or workplace are also important.
Symptoms such as coughing or wheezing can be treated with medication.
Pulmonary rehabilitation is an individualized treatment program that teaches COPD management strategies to increase quality of life.
Plans may include breathing strategies, energy-conserving techniques, and nutritional counseling.
The flu can cause serious problems in people with COPD.
Vaccination during flu season is recommended and respiratory infections should be treated with antibiotics, if appropriate.
Patients who have low blood oxygen levels are often given supplemental oxygen.
How are these disorders diagnosed?
Based on the results of the individual's medical history and a general physical exam, the physician will conduct a thorough neurological exam to assess various functions: motor and sensory skills, nerve function, hearing and speech, vision, coordination and balance, mental status, and changes in mood or behavior.
The physician may order laboratory tests and one or more of the following procedures to help diagnose neurological complications of AIDS.
What is Lofgren's syndrome?
Lofgren's syndrome is a classic set of signs and symptoms that occur in some people when they first have sarcoidosis.
Is there any treatment for Dystonias?
No one treatment has been found to be universally effective.
Instead, doctors use a variety of therapies medications, surgery, and other treatments such as physical therapy, splinting, stress management, and biofeedback aimed at reducing or eliminating muscle spasms and pain.
Since response to drugs varies among individuals and even in the same person over time, the most effective therapy is often individualized.
What is a Stroke?
A stroke, or brain attack, occurs when blood circulation to the brain fails.
Brain cells can die from decreased blood flow and the resulting lack of oxygen.
There are two broad categories of stroke: those caused by a blockage of blood flow and those caused by bleeding into the brain.
A blockage of a blood vessel in the brain or neck, called an ischemic stroke, is the most frequent cause of stroke and is responsible for about 80 percent of strokes.
These blockages stem from three conditions: the formation of a clot within a blood vessel of the brain or neck, called thrombosis; the movement of a clot from another part of the body such as the heart to the brain, called embolism; or a severe narrowing of an artery in or leading to the brain, called stenosis.
Bleeding into the brain or the spaces surrounding the brain causes the second type of stroke, called hemorrhagic stroke.
What is Colonic atresia?
Colonic atresia is an extremely rare congenital anomaly that occurs when a section of the colon closes before birth.
What Are the Risks of Percutaneous Coronary Intervention?
Percutaneous coronary intervention PCI is a common medical procedure.
Serious complications don't occur often.
However, they can happen no matter how careful your doctor is or how well he or she does the procedure.
What is the prognosis for Dysautonomia?
The outlook for individuals with dysautonomia depends on the particular diagnostic category.
People with chronic, progressive, generalized dysautonomia in the setting of central nervous system degeneration have a generally poor long-term prognosis.
Death can occur from pneumonia, acute respiratory failure, or sudden cardiopulmonary arrest.
When do I need to see a doctor?
Have a fever higher than 101.5 degree F degrees Fahrenheit.
What is Intussusception?
Intussusception is a condition in which one section of either the large or small intestine folds into itself, much like a collapsible telescope.
What is the prognosis for Gerstmann's Syndrome?
In adults, many of the symptoms diminish over time.
Although it has been suggested that in children symptoms may diminish over time, it appears likely that most children probably do not overcome their deficits, but learn to adjust to them.
Who Needs Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting?
Your doctor may recommend CABG if other treatments, such as lifestyle changes or medicines, haven't worked.
He or she also may recommend CABG if you have severe blockages in your large coronary heart arteries, especially if your heart's pumping action has already grown weak.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
Fractures from osteoporosis can result in significant pain and disability.
In the United States, more than 40 million people either already have osteoporosis or are at high risk due to low bone mass.
Although postmenopausal Caucasian women have the highest risk for the disease, men and certain ethnic populations are also at risk.
What are the symptoms?
stroke or transient ischemic attack TIA, sometimes also called a 'mini-stroke'.
How do people getSalmonella infections from live poultry?
People become infected with Salmonella when they put their hands or other things that have been in contact with feces in or around their mouth.
Young children are especially at risk for illness because their immune systems are still developing and because they are more likely than others to put their fingers or other items into their mouths.
It is important to wash hands immediately after touching poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam, because the germs on your hands can easily spread to other people or things.
What Is Anemia?
Anemia also can occur if your red blood cells don't contain enough hemoglobin HEE-muh-glow-bin.
Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that gives blood its red color.
This protein helps red blood cells carry oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body.
What causes peripheral neuropathy?
Peripheral neuropathy may be either inherited or acquired.
Causes of acquired peripheral neuropathy include physical injury trauma to a nerve, tumors, toxins, autoimmune responses, nutritional deficiencies, alcoholism, and vascular and metabolic disorders.
Acquired peripheral neuropathies are grouped into three broad categories: those caused by systemic disease, those caused by trauma from external agents, and those caused by infections or autoimmune disorders affecting nerve tissue.
One example of an acquired peripheral neuropathy is trigeminal neuralgia also known as tic douloureux, in which damage to the trigeminal nerve the large nerve of the head and face causes episodic attacks of excruciating, lightning-like pain on one side of the face.
In some cases, the cause is an earlier viral infection, pressure on the nerve from a tumor or swollen blood vessel, or, infrequently, multiple sclerosis.
In many cases, however, a specific cause cannot be identified.
Doctors usually refer to neuropathies with no known cause as idiopathic neuropathies.
If I test positive for Chagas disease, can I give blood again?
No.
You cannot donate again if you've tested positive for Chagas disease.
What are the complications and treatment of a burst appendix?
Sometimes an abscess forms around a burst appendix - called an appendiceal abscess.
A surgeon may drain the pus from the abscess during surgery or, more commonly, before surgery.
To drain an abscess, a tube is placed in the abscess through the abdominal wall.
The drainage tube is left in place for about 2 weeks while antibiotics are given to treat infection.
Six to 8 weeks later, when infection and inflammation are under control, surgeons operate to remove what remains of the burst appendix.
What is Embolization therapy?
Embolization therapy is a treatment to block the artery leading to the adrenal gland.
What research is being done for Neurosyphilis?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke supports and conducts research on neurodegenerative disorders, such as neurosyphilis, in an effort to find ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure these disorders.
What Is a Ventilator?
A ventilator often is used for short periods, such as during surgery when you're under general anesthesia AN-es-THE-ze-ah.
The term anesthesia refers to a loss of feeling and awareness.
General anesthesia temporarily puts you to sleep.
What is Hepatitis C?
Hepatitis C is a contagious liver disease that ranges in severity from a mild illness lasting a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness that attacks the liver.
It results from infection with the Hepatitis C virus HCV, which is spread primarily through contact with the blood of an infected person.
Hepatitis C can be either 'acute' or 'chronic.'
What Research Is Being Conducted on Heritable Disorders of Connective Tissue?
NIAMS-supported researchers have succeeded in healing wounds in a mouse model of a particularly severe form of epidermolysis bullosa called recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa RDEB by injecting the mice with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa patient cells in which the gene defect has been corrected.
This approach may be useful in developing therapies for the disease.
Other NIAMS-supported research shows it may be possible to grow healthy new skin in the lab for people with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa by using skin cells from patients that were modified to express a normal gene for type VII collagen.
Having successfully transplanted the modified skin on mice, scientists can now try to grow larger sheets of skin and graft them back onto people affected by recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa.
What else should I know about the vaccine?
Like many vaccines, MCV4 may cause mild side effects, like redness and soreness where the shot was given usually in the arm.
A few people who get the vaccine will get a fever.
Some preteens and teens might faint after getting MCV4 or any shot.
Sitting or lying down to get the shot and then for about 15 minutes after the shot, can help avoid fainting.
Serious side effects from MCV4 are rare.
What is Biologic therapy?
Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer; substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the body's natural defenses against cancer.
Who Needs to be Vaccinated?
IPV is a shot, given in the leg or arm, depending on age.
Polio vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines.
What can a person expect after a virtual colonoscopy?
After the test, a radiologist interprets the images, evaluates the results to find any abnormalities, and sends a report to the gastroenterologist.
If the radiologist finds abnormalities, a gastroenterologist may perform a colonoscopy the same day or at a later time.
In what parts of the world is Chagas disease found?
People who have Chagas disease can be found anywhere in the world.
However, vectorborne transmission is confined to the Americas, principally rural areas in parts of Mexico, Central America, and South America.
In some regions of Latin America, vector-control programs have succeeded in stopping this type of disease spread.
Vectorborne transmission does not occur in the Caribbean for example, in Puerto Rico or Cuba.
Rare vectorborne cases of Chagas disease have been noted in the southern United States.
What research is being done for Vasculitis Syndromes of the Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research relating to vasculitis syndromes in laboratories at the NIH and also support vasculitis research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
The NINDS supports The Vasculitis Clinical Research Consortium VCRC, a network of academic medical centers, patient support organizations, and clinical research resources dedicated to conducting clinical research and improving the care of individuals with vasculitis.
What is Chronic Pain?
While acute pain is a normal sensation triggered in the nervous system to alert you to possible injury and the need to take care of yourself, chronic pain is different.
Chronic pain persists.
Pain signals keep firing in the nervous system for weeks, months, even years.
There may have been an initial mishap -- sprained back, serious infection, or there may be an ongoing cause of pain -- arthritis, cancer, ear infection, but some people suffer chronic pain in the absence of any past injury or evidence of body damage.
Many chronic pain conditions affect older adults.
Common chronic pain complaints include headache, low back pain, cancer pain, arthritis pain, neurogenic pain pain resulting from damage to the peripheral nerves or to the central nervous system itself, psychogenic pain pain not due to past disease or injury or any visible sign of damage inside or outside the nervous system.
A person may have two or more co-existing chronic pain conditions.
Such conditions can include chronic fatigue syndrome, endometriosis, fibromyalgia, inflammatory bowel disease, interstitial cystitis, temporomandibular joint dysfunction, and vulvodynia.
It is not known whether these disorders share a common cause.
What Type of Doctor Diagnoses and Treats Paget's Disease?
Paget's disease is often diagnosed and treated by endocrinologists or rheumatologists.
Endocrinologists are doctors who specialize in diagnosing and treating hormonal conditions.
Rheumatologists are doctors who specialize in disorders of the joints, connective tissues, and muscles.
What does CDC and the Federal Government Are Doing?
Conducting and evaluating programs that work, as well as innovative approaches to reduce teen pregnancy and births in communities with the highest rates.
What are the possible side effects of antiviral drugs?
Some side effects have been associated with the use of flu antiviral drugs, including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, runny or stuffy nose, cough, diarrhea, headache and some behavioral side effects.
These are uncommon.
Your doctor can give you more information about these drugs or you can check the CDC or the Food and Drug Administration FDA websites.
What is Todd's paralysis?
Todd's paralysis is a neurological condition experienced by individuals with epilepsy, in which a seizure is followed by a brief period of temporary paralysis.
Why do I need to get tested for HIV?
Many people with HIV don't have any symptoms.
Even if you don't feel sick, getting early treatment for HIV is important.
The only way to know if you have HIV is to get tested.
Q: How can someone get help paying for HPV vaccine?
A: The Vaccines for Children VFC program helps families of eligible children who might not otherwise have access to vaccines.
The program provides vaccines at no cost to doctors who serve eligible children.
Children younger than 19 years of age are eligible for VFC vaccines if they are Medicaid-eligible, American Indian, or Alaska Native or have no health insurance.
To learn more see VFC program.
What is irritable bowel syndrome IBS?
Irritable bowel syndrome is a functional gastrointestinal GI disorder, meaning it is a problem caused by changes in how the GI tract works.
Children with a functional GI disorder have frequent symptoms, but the GI tract does not become damaged.
IBS is not a disease; it is a group of symptoms that occur together.
The most common symptoms of IBS are abdominal pain or discomfort, often reported as cramping, along with diarrhea, constipation, or both.
In the past, IBS was called colitis, mucous colitis, spastic colon, nervous colon, and spastic bowel.
The name was changed to reflect the understanding that the disorder has both physical and mental causes and is not a product of a person's imagination.
What is An unanswered question?
An unanswered question is the impact of imatinib treatment on outcome for patients who subsequently proceed to allogeneic HSCT.
What Causes Respiratory Distress Syndrome?
A fetus's lungs start making surfactant during the third trimester of pregnancy weeks 26 through labor and delivery.
The substance coats the insides of the air sacs in the lungs.
This helps keep the lungs open so breathing can occur after birth.
How is iron deficiency treated?
If your doctor or health care provider thinks that you have iron deficiency she or he may prescribe iron supplements for you to take and then ask that you return after a period to have your hemoglobin or hematocrit tested.
Is there any treatment for Dravet Syndrome?
Seizures in Dravet syndrome are difficult to control, but can be reduced by anticonvulsant drugs.
A ketogenic diet, high in fats and low in carbohydrates, also may be beneficial.
Why Do We Have a Health Literacy Problem in the U.S.
and Many Other Countries?
When organizations or people create and give others health information that is too difficult for them to understand, we create a health literacy problem.
When we expect them to figure out health services with many unfamiliar, confusing or even conflicting steps, we also create a health literacy problem.
What is Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis is a joint disease that mostly affects cartilage.
How Are Arrhythmias Diagnosed?
Arrhythmias can be hard to diagnose, especially the types that only cause symptoms every once in a while.
Doctors diagnose arrhythmias based on medical and family histories, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures.
What is Sudden cardiac arrest SCA?
Sudden cardiac arrest SCA is an emergency.
What is Vaccination?
Vaccination is the first and most important step in protecting against influenza.
I don't like my school's no-nit policy; can CDC do something?
No.
CDC is not a regulatory agency.
School head lice policies often are determined by local school boards.
Local health departments may have guidelines that address school head lice policies; check with your local and state health departments to see if they have such recommendations.
What Causes Asbestos-Related Lung Diseases?
Asbestos fibers are very small.
When you breathe in, they can get stuck deep in your lungs.
The fibers remain in your lung tissue for a long time and may cause scarring and inflammation.
This can lead to pleural plaque and widespread pleural thickening, pleural effusion, asbestosis, lung cancer, or mesothelioma.
What does Are the Sign and Symptom of Broken Heart Syndrome?
All chest pain should be checked by a doctor.
Because symptoms of broken heart syndrome are similar to those of a heart attack, it is important to seek help right away.
Your doctor may not be able to diagnose broken heart syndrome until you have some tests.
What is the prognosis for Porencephaly?
The prognosis for children with porencephaly varies according to the location and extent of the cysts or cavities.
Some children with this disorder develop only minor neurological problems and have normal intelligence, while others may be severely disabled and die before their second decade of life.
What Is a Pacemaker?
During an arrhythmia, the heart may not be able to pump enough blood to the body.
This can cause symptoms such as fatigue tiredness, shortness of breath, or fainting.
Severe arrhythmias can damage the body's vital organs and may even cause loss of consciousness or death.
What is Angiography?
Angiography is a test used to detect blockages of the arteries or veins.
What are the complications of spina bifida?
Complications of spina bifida can range from minor physical problems with little functional impairment to severe physical and mental disabilities.
It is important to note, however, that most people with spina bifida are of normal intelligence.
Spina bifida's impact is determined by the size and location of the malformation, whether it covered, and which spinal nerves are involved.
All nerves located below the malformation are affected to some degree.
Therefore, the higher the malformation occurs on the back, the greater the amount of nerve damage and loss of muscle function and sensation.
What is Pediatric follicular lymphoma?
Pediatric follicular lymphoma is a disease that differs from the adult counterpart genetically and clinically.
What is the prognosis for Opsoclonus Myoclonus?
The prognosis for opsoclonus myoclonus varies depending on the symptoms and the presence and treatment of tumors.
With treatment of the underlying cause of the disorder, there may be an improvement of symptoms.
The symptoms sometimes recur without warning.
Generally the disorder is not fatal.
What is liver transplant rejection and how is it treated?
Rejection occurs when a person's immune system recognizes the transplanted liver as 'foreign' and tries to destroy it.
Rejection commonly occurs a week or two after a transplant, although rejection can occur at any time that immunosuppressive medications fail to control the patient's immune reaction.
Rejection does not always cause noticeable symptoms.
Elevated liver enzyme levels in the blood may be the first sign that rejection is occurring.
Other signs and symptoms of rejection may include fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea, abdominal tenderness or pain, fever, jaundice, dark-colored urine, or lightcolored stools.
If my blood tests positive on the screening test, does that mean I have Chagas disease?
Probably.
However, no test is perfect.
Some false-positive results may occur with these very sensitive tests.
You should discuss your results with your health care provider.
What are the signs of chlamydia?
Women with symptoms may have abnormal discharge fluid from the vagina, burning when they urinate pee, or pain during sex.
How common is cyclic vomiting syndrome?
Cyclic vomiting syndrome is more common in children than adults, although reports of the syndrome in adults have increased in recent years.
Usually, children are about 5 years old when diagnosed with cyclic vomiting syndrome, which occurs in every three out of 100,000 children.
Is my child at risk for eye disease?
If your family has a history of childhood vision problems, your child may be more likely to have eye problems.
Talk to the doctor about eye problems in your family.
When is a liver transplant considered for cirrhosis?
A health care provider may consider a liver transplant when cirrhosis leads to liver failure or treatment for complications is ineffective.
Liver transplantation is surgery to remove a diseased or an injured liver and replace it with a healthy whole liver or part of a liver from another person, called a donor.
What is Polycythemia vera PV?
Polycythemia vera PV is a rare blood disease.
What is a continent ileostomy?
A continent ileostomy is an internal pouch, sometimes called a Kock pouch, fashioned from the end of the ileum just before it exits the abdominal wall as an ileostomy.
The surgeon makes a valve inside the pouch so that intestinal contents do not flow out.
The person drains the pouch each day by inserting a thin, flexible tube, called a catheter, through the stoma.
The person covers the stoma with a simple patch or dressing.
A continent ileostomy is an option for people who are not good candidates for an ileoanal reservoir because of damage to the rectum or anus and who do not want to wear an ostomy pouch.
How Can Endocarditis Be Prevented?
Be alert to the signs and symptoms of IE.
Contact your doctor right away if you have any of these signs or symptoms, especially a persistent fever or unexplained fatigue tiredness.
What do I need to know about Liver Transplantation - National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse?
Home : Digestive Diseases A-Z List of Topics and Titles : What I need to know about Liver Transplantation.
When should children with diarrhea see a health care provider?
If children have diarrhea, parents or caregivers should not hesitate to call a health care provider for advice.
Diarrhea is especially dangerous in newborns and infants, leading to severe dehydration in just a day or two.
Children can die from dehydration within a day.
How are brain and spinal cord tumors treated?
Initial treatment for a CNS tumor may involve a variety of drugs, including anticonvulsants to treat seizures, pain medications, steroids or other anti-inflammatory drugs to reduce swelling and improve blood flow, antidepressants to treat anxiety or ease depression that might occur following a tumor diagnosis, and drugs to fight nausea caused by various treatments.
How is Spinal fusion used?
Spinal fusion is used to strengthen the spine and prevent painful movements.
What Causes Cardiomyopathy?
Inherited means your parents passed the gene for the disease on to you.
Researchers continue to look for the genetic links to cardiomyopathy.
They also continue to explore how these links cause or contribute to the various types of the disease.
What research is being done for Tremor?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, a unit of the National Institutes of Health NIH within the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, is the nation's leading federal funder of research on disorders of the brain and nervous system.
The NINDS sponsors research on tremor both at its facilities at the NIH and through grants to medical centers.
Scientists are evaluating the effectiveness of certain drugs and searching for genes that can cause certain forms of tremor.
What causes food poisoning?
Foods can also pick up bacteria at the store or in the kitchen.
This usually happens when food that needs to be kept cold is left out at room temperature for more than 2 hours.
What is the prognosis for Angelman Syndrome?
Most individuals with Angelman syndrome will have severe developmental delays, speech limitations, and motor difficulties.
However, individuals with Angelman syndrome can have normal life spans and generally do not show developmental regression as they age.
Early diagnosis and tailored interventions and therapies help improve quality of life.
What is Vitamin B12?
Vitamin B12 is a nutrient found in some foods.
Who Is at Risk for Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency?
Some risk factors make it more likely that you'll develop lung disease if you have AAT deficiency.
Smoking is the leading risk factor for serious lung disease if you have AAT deficiency.
Your risk for lung disease also may go up if you're exposed to dust, fumes, or other toxic substances.
Are There Any Special Issues for Hispanic Women Regarding Bone Health?
An estimated 10 percent of Hispanic women age 50 and older have osteoporosis, and 49 percent are estimated to have bone mass that is low but not low enough for them to be diagnosed with osteoporosis.
What Is Asthma?
Asthma is a disease that affects your lungs.
It is one of the most common long-term diseases of children, but adults can have asthma, too.
Asthma causes wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness, and coughing at night or early in the morning.
If you have asthma, you have it all the time, but you will have asthma attacks only when something bothers your lungs.
What is Heartburn?
Heartburn is a painful, burning feeling in the chest that radiates toward the neck or back.
What is Osgood-Schlatter disease?
Osgood-Schlatter disease is a condition caused by repetitive stress or tension on part of the growth area of the upper tibia the apophysis.
What is the risk for my pet?
However, from 1985 through 1994, woodchucks accounted for 86% of the 368 cases of rabies among rodents reported to CDC.
Woodchucks or groundhogs Marmota monax are the only rodents that may be frequently submitted to state health department because of a suspicion of rabies.
In all cases involving rodents, the state or local health department should be consulted before a decision is made to initiate postexposure prophylaxis PEP.
Who develops UC?
While UC can occur in people of any age, it usually develops between the ages of 15 and 30 and less frequently between the ages of 60 and 80.
The disease affects men and women equally.
People with a family member or first-degree relative with an IBD are at higher risk for developing UC, as are Caucasians and people of Jewish descent.
How Is Anemia Treated?
Treatment for anemia depends on the type, cause, and severity of the condition.
Treatments may include dietary changes or supplements, medicines, procedures, or surgery to treat blood loss.
Is There a Special Diet I Should Follow?
There is no special diet to prevent or help treat Paget's disease.
For overall bone health, you should eat a balanced diet rich in calcium and vitamin D.
The Institute of Medicine IOM of the National Academy of Sciences recommends 1,000 mg milligrams of calcium daily for adults age 19 to 50.
Women over age 50 and men over age 70 should increase their intake to 1,200 mg daily.
To help your body use the calcium, the IOM recommends 600 International Units IU of vitamin D up to age 70 and 800 IU after 70.
What research is being done for Myoclonus?
Investigators are evaluating the role of neurotransmitters and receptors in myoclonus.
If abnormalities in neurotransmitters or receptors are found to play a causative role in myoclonus, future research can focus on determining the extent to which genetic alterations are responsible for these abnormalities and on identifying the nature of those alterations.
Scientists also may be able to develop drug treatments that target specific changes in the receptors to reverse abnormalities, such as the loss of inhibition, and to enhance mechanisms that compensate for these abnormalities.
Identifying receptor abnormalities also may help researchers develop diagnostic tests for myoclonus.
NINDS-supported scientists at research institutions throughout the country are studying various aspects of PME, including the basic mechanisms and genes involved in this group of diseases.
What is Syringomyelia?
Syringomyelia sear-IN-go-my-EEL-ya is a disorder in which a cyst forms within the spinal cord.
This cyst, called a syrinx, expands and elongates over time, destroying the center of the spinal cord.
Since the spinal cord connects the brain to nerves in the extremities, this damage results in pain, weakness, and stiffness in the back, shoulders, arms, or legs.
Other symptoms may include headaches and a loss of the ability to feel extremes of hot or cold, especially in the hands.
Each patient experiences a different combination of symptoms.
Magnetic resonance imaging MRI has significantly increased the number of syringomyelia cases diagnosed in the beginning stages of the disorder.
Signs of the disorder tend to develop slowly, although sudden onset may occur with coughing or straining.
If not treated surgically, syringomyelia often leads to progressive weakness in the arms and legs, loss of hand sensation, and chronic, severe pain.
In most cases, the disorder is related to a congenital abnormality of the brain called a Chiari I malformation.
This malformation occurs during the development of the fetus and causes the lower part of the cerebellum to protrude from its normal location in the back of the head into the cervical or neck portion of the spinal canal.
Syringomyelia may occur as a complication of trauma, meningitis, hemorrhage, a tumor, or arachnoiditis.
Symptoms may appear months or even years after the initial injury, starting with pain, weakness, and sensory impairment originating at the site of trauma.
Some cases of syringomyelia are familial, although this is rare.
What is Abdominal surgery?
Abdominal surgery is the most frequent cause of abdominal adhesions.
How are inguinal hernias treated?
Repair of an inguinal hernia via surgery is the only treatment for inguinal hernias and can prevent incarceration and strangulation.
Health care providers recommend surgery for most people with inguinal hernias and especially for people with hernias that cause symptoms.
Research suggests that men with hernias that cause few or no symptoms may be able to safely delay surgery until their symptoms increase.
Men who delay surgery should watch for symptoms and see a health care provider regularly.
Health care providers usually recommend surgery for infants and children to prevent incarceration.
Emergent, or immediate, surgery is necessary for incarcerated or strangulated hernias.
What is the prognosis for Pompe Disease?
Without enzyme replacement therapy, the hearts of babies with infantile onset Pompe disease progressively thicken and enlarge.
These babies die before the age of one year from either cardiorespiratory failure or respiratory infection.
For individuals with late onset Pompe disease, the prognosis is dependent upon the age of onset.
In general, the later the age of onset, the slower the progression of the disease.
Ultimately, the prognosis is dependent upon the extent of respiratory muscle involvement.
How do I know if my baby is growing and developing on schedule?
During the first year of life, your baby will reach milestones in how she learns, plays, behaves, and moves.
Each baby grows and develops differently.
For example, some babies will crawl earlier than others.
What is the prognosis for Schizencephaly?
The prognosis for individuals with schizencephaly varies depending on the size of the clefts and the extent of neurological disabilities.
What is an ileostomy?
An ileostomy is a stoma created from a part of the ileum.
For this surgery, the surgeon brings the ileum through the abdominal wall to make a stoma.
An ileostomy may be permanent or temporary.
An ileostomy is permanent when the surgeon removes or bypasses the entire colon, rectum, and anus.
A surgeon may perform a temporary ileostomy for a damaged or an inflamed colon or rectum that only needs time to rest or heal from injury or surgery.
After the colon or rectum heals, the surgeon repairs the opening in the abdominal wall and reconnects the ileum so stool will pass into the colon normally.
An ileostomy is the most common temporary bowel diversion.
A surgeon performs an ileostomy most often to treat inflammatory bowel disease or rectal cancer.
What is A blood transfusion?
A blood transfusion is a common procedure in which blood is given to you through an intravenous IV line in one of your blood vessels.
How is hepatitis E spread?
Hepatitis E is spread through food or water contaminated by feces from an infected person.
This disease is uncommon in the United States.
What is Rate control?
Rate control is the recommended treatment for most patients who have AF, even though an abnormal heart rhythm continues and the heart doesn't work as well as it should.
Who's at risk?
As pedestrians, children are at even greater risk of injury or death from traffic crashes due to their small size, inability to judge distances and speeds, and lack of experience with traffic rules.
What research is being done for Aicardi Syndrome?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on neurogenetic disorders such as Aicardi syndrome.
The goals of this research are to locate and understand the genes involved and to develop techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure disorders such as Aicardi syndrome.
Is there any treatment for Hereditary Neuropathies?
There are no standard treatments for hereditary neuropathies.
Treatment is mainly symptomatic and supportive.
Medical treatment includes physical therapy and if needed, pain medication.
Orthopedic surgery may be needed to correct severe foot or other skeletal deformities.
Bracing may also be used to improve mobility.
What is Rehabilitation?
Rehabilitation is an important part of the recovery process for a TBI patient.
What is Second-look laparotomy?
Second-look laparotomy is a surgical procedure to find out if tumor cells are left after primary treatment.
What Is Osteoporosis? Isn't It Something Old People Get?
Osteoporosis is a disease that causes bones to become fragile and break easily.
When someone has osteoporosis, it means his/her 'bank account' of bone tissue has dropped to a low level.
If there is significant bone loss, even sneezing or bending over to tie a shoe can cause a bone in the spine to break.
Hips, ribs, and wrist bones also break easily.
The fractures from osteoporosis can be painful and disfiguring.
There is no cure for the disease.
What is A pediatric cardiologist?
A pediatric cardiologist is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating heart problems in children.
Who Needs a Lung Transplant?
Cystic fibrosis CF.
CF is the most common reason in children for needing a lung transplant.
CF is an inherited disease that causes thick, sticky mucus to build up in the lungs.
This leads to repeated, serious lung infections.
What is High blood cholesterol?
High blood cholesterol is a condition in which you have too much cholesterol in your blood.
How is Babesia microti transmitted?
Babesia microti is transmitted by the bite of infected Ixodes scapularis ticks - typically, by the nymph stage of the tick, which is about the size of a poppy seed.
How Is Rh Incompatibility Treated?
Rh incompatibility is treated with a medicine called Rh immune globulin.
Treatment for a baby who has hemolytic anemia will vary based on the severity of the condition.
3.
How Can We Treat Parkinson's Disease?
There are currently two main types of treatment for PD:; drug treatments and surgery.
What is Diabetic Neuropathy?
Diabetic neuropathy is a peripheral nerve disorder caused by diabetes or poor blood sugar control.
The most common types of diabetic neuropathy result in problems with sensation in the feet.
It can develop slowly after many years of diabetes or may occur early in the disease.
The symptoms are numbness, pain, or tingling in the feet or lower legs.
The pain can be intense and require treatment to relieve the discomfort.
The loss of sensation in the feet may also increase the possibility that foot injuries will go unnoticed and develop into ulcers or lesions that become infected.
In some cases, diabetic neuropathy can be associated with difficulty walking and some weakness in the foot muscles.
There are other types of diabetic-related neuropathies that affect specific parts of the body.
For example, diabetic amyotrophy causes pain, weakness and wasting of the thigh muscles, or cranial nerve infarcts that may result in double vision, a drooping eyelid, or dizziness.
Diabetes can also affect the autonomic nerves that control blood pressure, the digestive tract, bladder function, and sexual organs.
Problems with the autonomic nerves may cause lightheadedness, indigestion, diarrhea or constipation, difficulty with bladder control, and impotence.
What Is a Coronary Calcium Scan?
If the plaque ruptures, a blood clot can form on its surface.
A large blood clot can mostly or completely block blood flow through a coronary artery.
This is the most common cause of a heart attack.
Over time, ruptured plaque also hardens and narrows the coronary arteries.
What research is being done for Dysautonomia?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on dysautonomia.
This research aims to discover ways to diagnose, treat, and, ultimately, prevent these disorders.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which bones become weaker, less dense, and more likely to break.
Can these experiments be done safely using containment provided by BSL-3 with enhancements?
A BSL-3 facility with specific enhancements includes primary safety cabinets, isolation cabinets, gloves, gowns and secondary facility construction barriers to protect laboratory workers and the public from accidental exposure.
Specific enhancements include change-of-clothing and shower-out requirements, and the use of a powered air purifying respirator PAPR; half body suits.
The primary and secondary barriers plus additional personal safety practices provide appropriate containment for conducting such influenza research.
CDC evaluated the specific studies to be conducted as well as the highly experienced scientific team conducting the research and concluded that this work could proceed under BSL-3 containment with enhancements.
What is Losing weight?
Losing weight is the first step.
What are porphyrias?
Porphyrias are rare disorders that affect mainly the skin or nervous system and may cause abdominal pain.
These disorders are usually inherited, meaning they are caused by abnormalities in genes passed from parents to children.
When a person has a porphyria, cells fail to change body chemicals called porphyrins and porphyrin precursors into heme, the substance that gives blood its red color.
The body makes heme mainly in the bone marrow and liver.
Bone marrow is the soft, spongelike tissue inside the bones; it makes stem cells that develop into one of the three types of blood cells - red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.
What are gallstones?
Gallstones can range in size from a grain of sand to a golf ball.
The gallbladder can develop a single large gallstone, hundreds of tiny stones, or both small and large stones.
Gallstones can cause sudden pain in the upper right abdomen.
This pain, called a gallbladder attack or biliary colic, occurs when gallstones block the ducts of the biliary tract.
What Causes an Asthma Attack?
An asthma attack can happen when you are exposed to 'asthma triggers.' Your triggers can be very different from those of someone else with asthma.
Know your triggers and learn how to avoid them.
Watch out for an attack when you can't avoid the triggers.
Some of the most common triggers are:
What should you expect before Chest MRI?
Are you pregnant or do you think you could be? Generally, you shouldn't have a chest MRI if you're pregnant, especially during the first trimester.
Sometimes, though, an MRI is needed to help diagnose a serious condition that may harm you or your baby.
If you're pregnant, discuss the risks and benefits of an MRI with your doctor.
How should the H5N1 inventory be used?
The inventory of H5N1 genetic changes is intended for use by researchers conducting influenza surveillance and research on H5N1 viruses in humans and animals.
The H5N1 Inventory should be used as a reference for the identification of specific genetic changes in naturally-occurring H5N1 viruses that may indicate adaptation to mammalian species or altered susceptibility to existing influenza antiviral drugs.
Because adaptation of H5N1 viruses to mammalian species may occur through multiple pathways, surveillance and research teams that identify viruses with multiple genetic changes should alert a relevant WHO Collaborating Center or an H5N1 reference laboratory and submit the virus for further characterization and for risk assessment.
Contact information for these laboratories can be found at the WHO website.
What Are Possible Complications of Hip Replacement Surgery?
The most common later complication of hip replacement surgery is an inflammatory reaction to tiny particles that gradually wear off of the artificial joint surfaces and are absorbed by the surrounding tissues.
The inflammation may trigger the action of special cells that eat away some of the bone, causing the implant to loosen.
To treat this complication, the doctor may use anti-inflammatory medications or recommend revision surgery replacement of an artificial joint.
Medical scientists are experimenting with new materials that last longer and cause less inflammation.
Less common complications of hip replacement surgery include infection, blood clots, and heterotopic bone formation bone growth beyond the normal edges of bone.
What is the risk to humans from this virus?
However, human infections with new influenza viruses against which the human population has little immunity would be concerning if they occurred.
Influenza viruses are constantly changing and it is possible for a virus to change so that it could infect humans and spread easily between humans.
Such a virus could represent a pandemic influenza threat.
For this reason, CDC and its partners are monitoring the H3N8 influenza virus as well as other animal influenza viruses along with instances of possible human exposure to these viruses very closely.
In general, however, canine influenza viruses are considered to pose a low threat to humans.
As mentioned earlier, while these viruses are well established in horse and dog populations, there is no evidence of infection among humans with this virus.
How common is IBS in children?
Limited information is available about the number of children with IBS.
Older studies have reported prevalence rates for recurrent abdominal pain in children of 10 to 20 percent.
However, these studies did not differentiate IBS from functional abdominal pain, indigestion, and abdominal migraine.
One study of children in North America found that 14 percent of high school students and 6 percent of middle school students have IBS.
The study also found that IBS affects boys and girls equally.
What is Fibromyalgia?
Fibromyalgia is a chronic disorder characterized by widespread musculoskeletal pain, fatigue, and multiple 'tender points,' particularly in the neck, spine, shoulders, and hips.
What is Miller Fisher Syndrome?
Miller Fisher syndrome is a rare, acquired nerve disease that is considered to be a variant of Guillain-Barre syndrome.
It is characterized by abnormal muscle coordination, paralysis of the eye muscles, and absence of the tendon reflexes.
Like Guillain-Barre syndrome, symptoms may be preceded by a viral illness.
Additional symptoms include generalized muscle weakness and respiratory failure.
The majority of individuals with Miller Fisher syndrome have a unique antibody that characterizes the disorder.
Who Is at Risk for a Heart Attack?
Certain risk factors make it more likely that you'll develop coronary heart disease CHD and have a heart attack.
You can control many of these risk factors.
Why does my child need these shots?
Shots can prevent serious diseases.
For example, meningitis can cause the loss of an arm or leg or even death.
Meningitis and whooping cough can spread easily from person to person.
HPV can cause some types of cancers later in life.
Who Needs Cardiac Rehabilitation?
Percutaneous per-ku-TA-ne-us coronary intervention PCI, sometimes referred to as angioplasty AN-jee-oh-plas-tee for coronary heart disease.
How Are Varicose Veins Treated?
If varicose veins cause few symptoms, your doctor may simply suggest making lifestyle changes.
If your symptoms are more severe, your doctor may recommend one or more medical procedures.
For example, you may need a medical procedure if you have a lot of pain, blood clots, or skin disorders caused by your varicose veins.
What research is being done for Cerebral Hypoxia?
The NINDS supports and conducts studies aimed at understanding neurological conditions that can damage the brain, such as cerebral hypoxia.
The goals of these studies are to find ways to prevent and treat these conditions.
What are common signs and symptoms of restless legs?
RLS symptoms may vary from day to day and in severity and frequency from person to person.
Individuals with mild RLS may have some disruption of sleep onset and minor interference in daytime activities.
In moderately severe cases, symptoms occur only once or twice a week but result in significant delay of sleep onset, with some disruption of daytime function.
In severe cases of RLS, the symptoms occur more than twice a week and result in burdensome interruption of sleep and impairment of daytime function.
What are Million Hearts?
Million Hearts is a national initiative to prevent 1 million heart attacks and strokes in the United States by 2017.
Is BMI interpreted the same way for children and teens as it is for adults?
Although the BMI number is calculated the same way for children and adults, the criteria used to interpret the meaning of the BMI number for children and teens are different from those used for adults.
For children and teens, BMI age- and sex-specific percentiles are used for two reasons:
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
Fractures from osteoporosis can result in pain and disability.
In the United States, more than 40 million people either already have osteoporosis or are at high risk due to low bone mass.
Although postmenopausal Caucasian women have the highest risk for the disease, men and certain ethnic populations are also at risk.
What is the prognosis for Myotonia?
Myotonia is a chronic disorder.
Symptoms may improve later in life.
What is the prognosis for Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation?
Most patients experience periods of rapid deterioration lasting 1 - 2 months, with relatively stable periods in between.
The rate of progression correlates with the age at onset, meaning that children with early symptoms tend to fare more poorly.
For those with early onset, dystonia and spasticity can eventually limit the ability to walk, usually leading to use of a wheelchair by the midteens.
Life expectancy is variable, although premature death does occur in NBIA.
Premature death usually occurs secondary to dystonia and impaired swallowing, which can lead to poor nutrition or aspiration pneumonia.
With improved medical care, however, a greater number of affected individuals reach adulthood.
For those with atypcial, late-onset NBIA, many are diagnosed as adults and live well into adulthood.
How Can I Keep My Bones Healthy?
For Life-stage group 14 to 18 years old, pregnant/lactating,Calcium mg/day is 1,300, and Vitamin D IU/day is 600!
What is Adenosine?
Adenosine is an inhibitory neuromodulator that is believed to promote sleep and suppress arousal.
What symptoms do people have when they are infected with variant viruses?
People who have been infected with variant viruses have had symptoms similar to the symptoms of regular human seasonal influenza.
These include fever, lethargy, lack of appetite and coughing.
Some people also have reported runny nose, sore throat, eye irritation, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.
How many people have MS?
No one knows exactly how many people have MS.
Experts think there are currently 250,000 to 350,000 people in the United States diagnosed with MS.
This estimate suggests that approximately 200 new cases are diagnosed every week.
Studies of the prevalence the proportion of individuals in a population having a particular disease of MS indicate that the rate of the disease has increased steadily during the twentieth century.
Is there any treatment for Pituitary Tumors?
Generally, treatment depends on the type of tumor, the size of the tumor, whether the tumor has invaded or pressed on surrounding structures, such as the brain and visual pathways, and the individual's age and overall health.
Three types of treatment are used: surgical removal of the tumor; radiation therapy, in which high-dose x-rays are used to kill the tumor cells; and drug therapy to shrink or destroy the tumor.
Medications are also sometimes used to block the tumor from overproducing hormones.
For some people, removing the tumor will also stop the pituitary's ability to produce a specific hormone.
These individuals will have to take synthetic hormones to replace the ones their pituitary gland no longer produces.
What if NSAIDs are still needed?
Doctors and patients work together to weigh the benefits and risks of using NSAIDs, even when NSAIDs have caused an ulcer.
Patients who stop taking an NSAID at their doctor's request may want to resume use once they feel better.
In other patients, the benefits of taking an NSAID outweigh the risks.
In such cases, the doctor works with the patient to determine how an NSAID can be safely continued.
Who is more likely to develop autoimmune hepatitis?
Manns MP, Czaja AJ, Gorham JD, et al.
Diagnosis and management of autoimmune hepatitis.
Hepatology.
2010;516:1 - 31.
What is Stroke?
Even though a stroke occurs in the unseen reaches of the brain, the symptoms of a stroke are easy to spot.
They include sudden numbness or weakness, especially on one side of the body; sudden confusion or trouble speaking or understanding speech; sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes; sudden trouble walking, dizziness, or loss of balance or coordination; or sudden severe headache with no known cause.
All of the symptoms of stroke appear suddenly, and often there is more than one symptom at the same time.
Therefore stroke can usually be distinguished from other causes of dizziness or headache.
These symptoms may indicate that a stroke has occurred and that medical attention is needed immediately.
What is Lung cancer?
Lung cancer is the leading cause of death from cancer in the United States.
What should you expect after Lung Function Tests?
You can return to your normal activities and restart your medicines after lung function tests.
Talk with your doctor about when you'll get the test results.
What are the different types of bowel diversion surgery?
Ileoanal reservoir surgery is an option when the large intestine is removed but the anus remains intact and disease-free.
The surgeon creates a colonlike pouch, called an ileoanal reservoir, from the last several inches of the ileum.
The ileoanal reservoir is also called a pelvic pouch or J-pouch.
Stool collects in the ileoanal reservoir and then exits the body through the anus during a bowel movement.
People who have undergone ileoanal reservoir surgery initially have about six to 10 bowel movements a day.
Two or more surgeries are usually required, including a temporary ileostomy, and an adjustment period lasting several months is needed for the newly formed ileoanal reservoir to stretch and adjust to its new function.
After the adjustment period, bowel movements decrease to as few as 4 to 6 a day.
What is Complex Regional Pain Syndrome?
Complex regional pain syndrome CRPS is a chronic pain condition.
The key symptom of CRPS is continuous, intense pain out of proportion to the severity of the injury, which gets worse rather than better over time.
CRPS most often affects one of the arms, legs, hands, or feet.
Often the pain spreads to include the entire arm or leg.
Typical features include dramatic changes in the color and temperature of the skin over the affected limb or body part, accompanied by intense burning pain, skin sensitivity, sweating, and swelling.
Doctors aren't sure what causes CRPS.
In some cases the sympathetic nervous system plays an important role in sustaining the pain.
Another theory is that CRPS is caused by a triggering of the immune response, which leads to the characteristic inflammatory symptoms of redness, warmth, and swelling in the affected area.
How fit are you now?
Before you start this program, answer the How Fit and Strong Are You Now? questions.
These questions will help you determine your current level of strength and independence.
Try returning to them again, after you have been strength training for three months, six months, and twelve months.
This will help you gauge how useful the program has been to you.
Keep in mind that if you have not been able to sustain the program for any reason - say, illness or injury - your score will likely remain the same or even decrease.
Don't be discouraged - just try to get back on track.
What Are the Different Kinds of Seizures?
Doctors have described more than 30 different types of seizures.
Seizures are divided into two major categories -- focal seizures and generalized seizures.
However, there are many different types of seizures in each of these categories.
What is diverticular disease?
Diverticular disease affects the colon.
The colon is part of the large intestine that removes waste from your body.
Diverticular disease is made up of two conditions: diverticulosis and diverticulitis.
Diverticulosis occurs when pouches, called diverticula, form in the colon.
These pouches bulge out like weak spots in a tire.
Diverticulitis occurs if the pouches become inflamed.
How do I reduce your risk while visiting areas with dengue?
International travelers' risk of dengue infection can vary dependant on transmission in the area as well as exposure to mosquitoes.
You are at greater risk when an outbreak or epidemic is occurring.
If your hotel or resort does not have air conditioning or windows and doors with secure, intact screens you may be at higher risk.
You should take precautions like using repellent and killing any visible mosquitoes.
CDC recommends repellents containing DEET, picaridin, oil of lemon eucalyptus or IR3535 as the active ingredient.
Repellent can be applied to exposed skin and/or clothing.
Clothing impregnated with permethrin is another option pre-treated or you can treat yourself.
Some spatial repellent/insecticide products mosquito coils, plug-in or butane powered devices, may assist in reducing the risk of mosquito around you.
How is HD diagnosed?
A doctor will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your child's bowel movements.
HD is much less likely if parents can identify a time when their child's bowel habits were normal.
What Types of Exercise Are Best for People With Knee Problems?
If you already have knee problems, your doctor or physical therapist can help with a plan of exercise that will help the knees without increasing the risk of injury or further damage.
As a general rule, you should choose gentle exercises such as swimming, aquatic exercise, or walking rather than jarring exercises such as jogging or high-impact aerobics.
What Are the Symptoms of Pink Eye?
Signs and symptoms of pink eye can vary but typically include redness or swelling of the white of the eye.
What is Cardiac catheterization?
Cardiac catheterization is a medical procedure used to diagnose and/or treat certain heart conditions.
Why Are Autism Spectrum Disorders Increasing?
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC estimates that about 1 in 88 children has been identified with an autism spectrum disorder ASD.
This data comes from the Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring ADDM Network, which estimated the number of 8-year-old children with ASDs living in 14 communities throughout the United States in 2008.
This new estimate marks a 23% increase since our last report in 2009, and a 78% increase since our first report in 2007.
Read the latest prevalence report.
What is Following a healthy diet?
Following a healthy diet is an important part of a heart healthy lifestyle.
How is Hormonal therapy used?
Hormonal therapy is used to manage most relapsing patients with disseminated disease who initially received locoregional therapy with surgery or radiation therapy.
Is there any treatment for Prosopagnosia?
The focus of any treatment should be to help the individual with prosopagnosia develop compensatory strategies.
Adults who have the condition as a result of stroke or brain trauma can be retrained to use other clues to identify individuals.
What is the prognosis for Chiari Malformation?
Many people with Type I CM are asymptomatic and do not know they have the condition.
Many individuals with the more severe types of CM and have surgery see a reduction in their symptoms and/or prolonged periods of relative stability, although paralysis is generally permanent.
What should be done for a child having a febrile seizure?
Seizures are frightening, but it is important that parents and caregivers stay calm and carefully observe the child.
To prevent accidental injury, the child should be placed on a protected surface such as the floor or ground.
The child should not be held or restrained during a convulsion.
To prevent choking, the child should be placed on his or her side or stomach.
When possible, gently remove any objects from the child's mouth.
Never place anything in the child's mouth during a convulsion.
Objects placed in the mouth can be broken and obstruct the child's airway.
Look at your watch when the seizure starts.
If the seizure lasts 10 minutes, the child should be taken immediately to the nearest medical facility.
Once the seizure has ended, the child should be taken to his or her doctor to check for the source of the fever.
This is especially urgent if the child shows symptoms of stiff neck, extreme lethargy, or abundant vomiting.
What is A resectoscope?
A resectoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light, a lens for viewing, and a tool to remove tissue and burn away any remaining tumor cells.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura?
Pinpoint-sized red or purple dots on the skin.
These dots, called petechiae, often are found in groups and may look like a rash.
Bleeding under the skin causes petechiae.
How Can I Make Sure I Get the Right Amount of Vitamin A?
Plant sources of beta-carotene are not as well absorbed as the animal sources of vitamin A listed in the chart, but they are still an important source of this vitamin.
Dark orange and green vegetables and fruit, including carrots, sweet potatoes, spinach, cantaloupe, and kale are excellent sources of beta-carotene.
Because of concerns about the negative effects of too much retinol, some people prefer to eat more foods rich in beta-carotene to satisfy their need for vitamin A.
How Is Respiratory Failure Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose respiratory failure based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
Once respiratory failure is diagnosed, your doctor will look for its underlying cause.
What is Older age?
Older age is a risk factor for heart valve disease.
How do I Clean the Sick Room | Caring for Someone Sick at Home | Seasonal Influenza :?
Caring for Someone Sick at Home.
How do digestive juices in each organ of the GI tract break down food?
Digestive juices contain enzymes - substances that speed up chemical reactions in the body - that break food down into different nutrients.
When is the right time to start talking?
Be sure to keep talking with your child during adolescence.
Adolescence is the stage between childhood and adulthood.
During this time, your child will go through puberty.
Puberty 'PEW-ber-tee' is when your child's body starts to change into an adult's body.
What is Multiple System Atrophy?
Multiple system atrophy MSA is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by symptoms of autonomic nervous system failure such as fainting spells and bladder control problems, combined with motor control symptoms such as tremor, rigidity, and loss of muscle coordination.
MSA affects both men and women primarily in their 50s.
Although what causes MSA is unknown, the disorder's symptoms reflect the loss of nerve cells in several different areas in the brain and spinal cord that control the autonomic nervous system and coordinate muscle movements.
The loss of nerve cells may be due to the buildup of a protein called alpha-synuclein in the cells that produce dopamine, a neurotransmitter that relays motor commands in the brain.
What is The DASH eating plan?
The DASH eating plan is a good heart healthy eating plan, even for those who don't have high blood pressure.
Is there any treatment for Tabes Dorsalis?
Penicillin, administered intravenously, is the treatment of choice.
Associated pain can be treated with opiates, valproate, or carbamazepine.
Patients may also require physical or rehabilitative therapy to deal with muscle wasting and weakness.
Preventive treatment for those who come into sexual contact with an individual with tabes dorsalis is important.
What Genes are Linked to Parkinson's Disease?
Several genes have now been definitively linked to PD.
The first to be identified was alpha-synuclein.
In the 1990s, researchers at NIH and other institutions studied the genetic profiles of a large Italian family and three Greek families with familial PD and found that their disease was related to a mutation in this gene.
They found a second alpha-synuclein mutation in a German family with PD.
These findings prompted studies of the role of alpha-synuclein in PD, which led to the discovery that Lewy bodies abnormal masses of protein that develop inside nerve cells seen in sporadic PD contain alpha-synuclein protein.
This discovery revealed a potential link between hereditary and sporadic forms of the disease.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of LAM?
Pleural effusions.
This condition can occur if bodily fluids collect in the space between the lung and the chest wall.
Often the fluid contains a milky substance called chyle kile.
The excess fluid in the chest may cause shortness of breath because the lung has less room to expand.
What is the prognosis for Neurosarcoidosis?
The prognosis for patients with neurosarcoidosis varies.
Approximately two-thirds of those with the condition will recover completely; the remainder will have a chronically progressing or on-and-off course of illness.
Complications resulting from immunosuppressive treatments, such as cryptococcal and tuberculous meningitis, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, and inclusion body myositis, may be fatal for a small percentage of individuals.
When Is Revision Surgery Necessary?
Hip replacement is one of the most successful orthopaedic surgeries performed.
However, because more people are having hip replacements at a younger age, and wearing away of the joint surface becomes a problem after 15 to 20 years, replacement of an artificial joint, which is also known as revision surgery, is becoming more common.
It is more difficult than first-time hip replacement surgery, and the outcome is generally not as good, so it is important to explore all available options before having additional surgery.
How Are Thalassemias Treated?
Doctors use three standard treatments for moderate and severe forms of thalassemia.
These treatments include blood transfusions, iron chelation ke-LAY-shun therapy, and folic acid supplements.
Other treatments have been developed or are being tested, but they're used much less often.
What is the prognosis for Paresthesia?
The prognosis for those with paresthesia depends on the severity of the sensations and the associated disorders.
What is Targeted therapy?
Targeted therapy is a treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells.
What is Alternating Hemiplegia?
Alternating hemiplegia is a rare neurological disorder that develops in childhood, most often before the child is 18 months old.
The disorder is characterized by recurrent episodes of paralysis that involve one or both sides of the body, multiple limbs, or a single limb.
The paralysis may affect different parts of the body at different times and may be brief or last for several days.
Oftentimes these episodes will resolve after sleep.
Affected children may also have abnormal movements involving stiffening or dance-like movements of a limb, as well as walking and balance problems.
Some children have seizures.
Children may have normal or delayed development.
There are both benign and more serious forms of the disorder.
Most children do not have a family history of the disorder; however, recent studies have show that some children with a family history have mutations in the genes CACNA1A, SCN1A, and ATP1A2.
Mutations in the ATP1A2 gene have previously been associated with families affect by familial hemiplegic migraine.
Who Is at Risk for a Stroke?
High blood pressure.
High blood pressure is the main risk factor for stroke.
Blood pressure is considered high if it stays at or above 140/90 mmHg over time.
If you have diabetes or chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure is defined as 130/80 mmHg or higher.
The mmHg is millimeters of mercury - the units used to measure blood pressure..
How Is COPD Diagnosed?
If you have an ongoing cough, let your doctor know how long you've had it, how much you cough, and how much mucus comes up when you cough.
Also, let your doctor know whether you have a family history of COPD.
What should you expect before a Tracheostomy?
When the procedure is done in a hospital, a general or pediatric surgeon or an otolaryngologist does the surgery.
Otolaryngologists specialize in diagnosing and treating problems with the ears, nose, and throat and related structures of the head.
These doctors also are called ear, nose, and throat ENT doctors.
What is being done about MRSA infections associated with influenza?
CDC is working with state and local public health authorities to monitor and investigate infections with MRSA, including pneumonias and other types of MRSA infections that occur in patients with influenza.
CDC also acts as a technical advisor to state and local health departments and various professional organizations that are working to control MRSA.
What Is a Tracheostomy?
A tracheostomy usually is temporary, although you can have one long term or even permanently.
How long you have a tracheostomy depends on the condition that required you to get it and your overall health.
Who Is at Risk for Heart Failure?
African Americans.
African Americans are more likely to have heart failure than people of other races.
They're also more likely to have symptoms at a younger age, have more hospital visits due to heart failure, and die from heart failure.
What is Papillomatosis of the larynx?
Papillomatosis of the larynx is a condition that causes papillomas benign tumors that look like warts to form in the tissue that lines the larynx.
What is Spasticity caused by?
Spasticity is usually caused by damage to nerve pathways within the brain or spinal cord that control muscle movement.
What Do the Knees Do? How Do They Work?
Several kinds of supporting and moving parts, including bones, cartilage, muscles, ligaments, and tendons, help the knees do their job see box 'Joint Basics'.
Each of these structures is subject to disease and injury.
When a knee problem affects your ability to do things, it can have a big impact on your life.
Knee problems can interfere with many things, from participation in sports to simply getting up from a chair and walking.
What is the prognosis for Cerebral Cavernous Malformation?
Some people with CCM will never know they have the disorder because they will never experience symptoms.
The prognosis for CCM is variable for each individual, since the location and number of lesions determine the severity of the disorder.
CCM can be fatal if it causes severe brain hemorrhages.
What is the prognosis for Craniosynostosis?
The prognosis for craniosynostosis varies depending on whether single or multiple cranial sutures are involved or other abnormalities are present.
The prognosis is better for those with single suture involvement and no associated abnormalities.
What is the prognosis for Neurosyphilis?
Prognosis can change based on the type of neurosyphilis and how early in the course of the disease people with neurosyphilis get diagnosed and treated.
Individuals with asymptomatic neurosyphilis or meningeal neurosyphilis usually return to normal health.
People with meningovascular syphilis, general paresis, or tabes dorsalis usually do not return to normal health, although they may get much better.
Individuals who receive treatment many years after they have been infected have a worse prognosis.
Treatment outcome is different for every person.
How is celiac disease treated?
Some people with celiac disease show no improvement on the gluten-free diet.
The most common reason for poor response to the diet is that small amounts of gluten are still being consumed.
Hidden sources of gluten include additives such as modified food starch, preservatives, and stabilizers made with wheat.
And because many corn and rice products are produced in factories that also manufacture wheat products, they can be contaminated with wheat gluten.
What is An ambulance?
An ambulance is the best and safest way to get to the hospital.
Is there any treatment for Sotos Syndrome?
There is no standard course of treatment for Sotos syndrome.
Treatment is symptomatic.
What is Sudden cardiac arrest SCA?
Sudden cardiac arrest SCA is a condition in which the heart suddenly and unexpectedly stops beating.
What is colonoscopy?
Colonoscopy is a procedure that uses a long, flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end, called a colonoscope or scope, to look inside the rectum and entire colon.
Colonoscopy can show irritated and swollen tissue, ulcers, and polyps - extra pieces of tissue that grow on the lining of the intestine.
A gastroenterologist - a doctor who specializes in digestive diseases - performs this procedure.
Is there any treatment for Barth Syndrome?
There is no specific treatment for Barth syndrome.
Bacterial infections caused by neutropenia can be effectively treated with antibiotics.
The drug granulocyte colony stimulating factor, or GCSF, can stimulate white cell production by the bone marrow and help combat infection.
Medicines may be prescribed to control heart problems.
The dietary supplement carnitine has aided some children with Barth syndrome but in others it has caused increasing muscle weakness and even precipitated heart failure.
Only careful dietary monitoring directed by a physician or nutritionist familiar with the disorder can ensure proper caloric and nutritional intake.
Who Needs a Tracheostomy?
People of all ages may need tracheostomies for various reasons.
What is A stool test?
A stool test is the analysis of a sample of stool.
What Does a Holter or Event Monitor Show?
If the symptoms of a heart rhythm problem occur often, a Holter or event monitor has a good chance of recording them.
You may not have symptoms while using a monitor.
Even so, your doctor can learn more about your heart rhythm from the test results.
Where is CO found?
CO is found in combustion fumes, such as those produced by cars and trucks, small gasoline engines, stoves, lanterns, burning charcoal and wood, and gas ranges and heating systems.
CO from these sources can build up in enclosed or semi-enclosed spaces.
People and animals in these spaces can be poisoned by breathing it.
Is there any treatment for Batten?
As yet, no specific treatment is known that can halt or reverse the symptoms of Batten disease or other NCLs.
However, seizures can sometimes be reduced or controlled with anticonvulsant drugs, and other medical problems can be treated appropriately as they arise.
At the same time, physical and occupational therapy may help patients retain function as long as possible.
What is Inflammation?
Inflammation is the body's response to injury or infection.
What is Narcolepsy NAR-ko-lep-se?
Narcolepsy NAR-ko-lep-se is a disorder that causes periods of extreme daytime sleepiness.
What is malrotation?
Malrotation can prevent the cecum - the beginning of the large intestine - from moving to its normal position in the lower right area of the abdomen.
If this happens, bands of mesentery can block the small intestine, creating an intestinal obstruction - also called bowel obstruction - a life-threatening event and a medical emergency.
Malrotation may also leave the mesentery only narrowly attached to the back of the abdomen.
This incomplete attachment may result in the intestine twisting - a serious condition called volvulus - see What is volvulus?.
How does birth control work?
It depends on the type of birth control you use.
Here are some of the most common methods of birth control.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
Who should not be vaccinated with Japanese Encephalitis vaccine?
What is Postherpetic Neuralgia?
Topical local anesthetics: Local anesthetics applied directly to the skin of the painful area affected by postherpetic neuralgia are also effective.
Lidocaine, the most commonly prescribed, is available in cream, gel, or spray form.
It is also available in a patch that has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use specifically in postherpetic neuralgia.
Topical local anesthetics stay in the skin and therefore do not cause problems such as drowsiness or constipation.
Capsaicin cream may be somewhat effective and is available over the counter, but most people find that it causes severe burning pain during application.
What research is being done for Neurological Sequelae Of Lupus?
Investigators researching lupus seek to increase scientific understanding of the disorder and to find ways to treat, prevent, and ultimately, cure it.
Several components of the National Institutes of Health support research on lupus.
How does CO poisoning work?
Red blood cells pick up CO quicker than they pick up oxygen.
If there is a lot of CO in the air, the body may replace oxygen in blood with CO.
This blocks oxygen from getting into the body, which can damage tissues and result in death.
CO can also combine with proteins in tissues, destroying the tissues and causing injury and death.
What do People With Osteogenesi Imperfecta Need to Know About Osteoporosi?
The Link Between OI and Osteoporosis.
What is Actigraphy?
Actigraphy is a test that's done while you do your normal daily routine.
How do I choose the right birth control?
There isn't one method of birth control that's right for everyone.
Each type of birth control has pros and cons.
Here are some things to think about when choosing a birth control method:
What is Ibuprofen?
Ibuprofen is a member of the aspirin family of analgesics, the so-called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs see below.
What should you expect during a Blood Transfusion?
A needle is used to insert an intravenous IV line into one of your blood vessels.
Through this line, you receive healthy blood.
The procedure usually takes 1 to 4 hours.
The time depends on how much blood you need and what part of the blood you receive.
How is Alagille syndrome treated?
Treatment for Alagille syndrome is aimed at increasing the flow of bile from the liver, promoting growth and development, and making the person as comfortable as possible.
Ursodiol Actigall, Urso is the only drug approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration to increase bile flow.
Other treatments address specific symptoms of the disease.
Who is at risk for hepatitis E?
international travelers, particularly those traveling to developing countries.
What causes childhood obesity?
Childhood obesity is the result of eating too many calories and not getting enough physical activity.
What research is being done for Post-Polio?
Scientists are working on a variety of investigations that may one day help individuals with PPS.
Some basic researchers are studying the behavior of motor neurons many years after a polio attack.
Others are looking at the mechanisms of fatigue and are trying to discover the roles played by the brain, spinal cord, peripheral nerves, neuromuscular junction the site where a nerve cell meets the muscle cell it helps activate, and muscles.
What is Post-Polio Syndrome?
Post-polio syndrome PPS is a condition that affects polio survivors many years after recovery from an initial attack of the poliomyelitis virus.
PPS is characterized by a further weakening of muscles that were previously affected by the polio infection.
The most common symptoms include slowly progressive muscle weakness, fatigue both general and muscular, and a decrease in muscle size muscular atrophy.
Pain from joint deterioration and increasing skeletal deformities such as scoliosis are common.
Some individuals experience only minor symptoms, while others develop more visible muscle weakness and atrophy.
PPS is rarely life-threatening but the symptoms can interfere significantly with the individual's capacity to function independently.
While polio is contagious, PPS is not transmissible.
Only a polio survivor can develop PPS.
What causes hemorrhoids?
Pregnancy can cause hemorrhoids by increasing pressure in the abdomen, which may enlarge the veins in the lower rectum and anus.
For most women, hemorrhoids caused by pregnancy disappear after childbirth.
How is the safety of the 2013-2014 seasonal flu vaccine being monitored?
Two main systems being used to monitor flu vaccine safety are VAERS, which is jointly operated with FDA, and the Vaccine Safety Datalink VSD Project, managed and coordinated by CDC's Immunization Safety Office.
Other systems are also being used.
Through vaccine safety monitoring, CDC and FDA are able to quickly identify any clinically significant adverse events following immunization that warrant further study or action to protect the health of the public.
What is Central Pontine Myelinolysis?
Central pontine myelinolysis CPM is a neurological disorder that most frequently occurs after too rapid medical correction of sodium deficiency hyponatremia.
The rapid rise in sodium concentration is accompanied by the movement of small molecules and pulls water from brain cells.
Through a mechanism that is only partly understood, the shift in water and brain molecules leads to the destruction of myelin, a substance that surrounds and protects nerve fibers.
Nerve cells neurons can also be damaged.
Certain areas of the brain are particularly susceptible to myelinolysis, especially the part of the brainstem called the pons.
Some individuals will also have damage in other areas of the brain, which is called extrapontine myelinolysis EPM.
Experts estimate that 10 percent of those with CPM will also have areas of EPM.
What is Bevacizumab?
Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody that works against vascular endothelial growth factor A and has shown some degree of efficacy in the metastatic setting.
What Is a Bone Density Test?
A bone mineral density BMD test is the best way to determine your bone health.
The test can identify osteoporosis, determine your risk for fractures broken bones, and measure your response to osteoporosis treatment.
The most widely recognized BMD test is called a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, or DXA test.
It is painless - a bit like having an x-ray.
The test can measure bone density at your hip and spine.
What is the prognosis for Psychogenic Movement?
The severity of psychogenic movement symptoms and prognosis varies among individuals.
Prognosis is considered poor when the movement disorder continues for many years.
Outcome appears to be better in younger people with a shorter duration of symptoms than in older persons with more chronic symptoms.
Also, people with few and mild symptoms that have an acute onset tend to have a more favorable outcome, particularly if the duration of symptoms is relatively short and is preceded by a stressful or traumatic event.
Some individuals may continue to experience symptoms over time and develop new symptoms related to other parts of their body.
What should You  know about Alcohol and Pregnancy?
CDC urges pregnant women not to drink alcohol any time during pregnancy.
There is no known safe amount of alcohol to drink while pregnant.
There is also no safe time during pregnancy to drink and no safe kind of alcohol.
How is autoimmune hepatitis treated?
Treatment works best when autoimmune hepatitis is diagnosed early.
People with autoimmune hepatitis generally respond to standard treatment and the disease can be controlled in most cases.
Long-term response to treatment can stop the disease from getting worse and may even reverse some damage to the liver.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a disease that makes bones fragile and more likely to break.
What is Concussion?
Concussion is the most minor and the most common type of TBI.
What research is being done for Primary Lateral Sclerosis?
The NINDS conducts a broad range of research on neuromuscular disorders such as PLS.
This research is aimed at developing techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure these devastating diseases.
How Is Cardiomyopathy Treated?
For other people who have cardiomyopathy, treatment is needed.
Treatment depends on the type of cardiomyopathy you have, the severity of your symptoms and complications, and your age and overall health.
Is there any treatment for Progressive?
A gastrostomy or a jejunostomy may be necessary when there are swallowing disturbances or the definite risk of severe choking.
This minimally invasive surgical procedure involves the placement of a tube through the skin of the abdomen into the stomach intestine for feeding purposes.
Deep brain stimulation and other surgical procedures used in individuals with Parkinson's disease have not been proven effective in PSP.
What is Metabolic syndrome?
Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk for CHD and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke.
What is the prognosis for Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome Disorder?
The prognosis depends upon the severity of symptoms.
Children with early-onset AGS have the highest risk of death.
Children with the later-onset form may be left with weakness or stiffness in the peripheral muscles and arms, weak muscles in the trunk of the body, and poor head control.
Almost all children with AGS have mild to severe intellectual and physical impairment.
What Treatments Are Available?
Appropriate treatment for osteonecrosis is necessary to keep joints from breaking down.
Without treatment, most people with the disease will experience severe pain and limitation in movement.
To determine the most appropriate treatment, the doctor considers the following:
How Is Childhood Interstitial Lung Disease Treated?
Childhood interstitial lung disease chILD is rare, and little research has been done on how to treat it.
At this time, chILD has no cure.
However, some children who have certain diseases, such as neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia of infancy, may slowly improve over time.
Is there any treatment for Paresthesia?
The appropriate treatment for paresthesia depends on accurate diagnosis of the underlying cause.
What is Kluever-Bucy Syndrome?
Kluever-Bucy syndrome is a rare behavioral impairment that is associated with damage to both of the anterior temporal lobes of the brain.
It causes individuals to put objects in their mouths and engage in inappropriate sexual behavior.
Other symptoms may include visual agnosia inability to visually recognize objects, loss of normal fear and anger responses, memory loss, distractibility, seizures, and dementia.
The disorder may be associated with herpes encephalitis and trauma, which can result in brain damage.
What Are the Health Risks of Overweight and Obesity?
Being overweight or obese isn't a cosmetic problem.
These conditions greatly raise your risk for other health problems.
Who Needs Echocardiography?
The size of your heart.
An enlarged heart might be the result of high blood pressure, leaky heart valves, or heart failure.
Echo also can detect increased thickness of the ventricles the heart's lower chambers.
Increased thickness may be due to high blood pressure, heart valve disease, or congenital heart defects.
How Do I Know if I Have Osteoporosis?
Since osteoporosis does not have any symptoms until a bone breaks, it is important to talk to your doctor about your bone health.
If your doctor feels that you are at risk for osteoporosis, he or she may order a bone density test.
A bone density test measures how strong - or dense - your bones are and whether you have osteoporosis.
It can also tell you what your chances are of breaking a bone.
Bone density tests are quick, safe, and painless.
What is Hormone therapy?
Hormone therapy is a cancer treatment that removes hormones or blocks their action and stops cancer cells from growing.
What Is Insomnia?
Insomnia in-SOM-ne-ah is a common sleep disorder.
People who have insomnia have trouble falling asleep, staying asleep, or both.
As a result, they may get too little sleep or have poor-quality sleep.
They may not feel refreshed when they wake up.
What are the different types of the mucopolysaccharidoses?
MPS VII, Sly syndrome, one of the least common forms of the mucopolysaccharidoses, is estimated to occur in fewer than one in 250,000 births.
The disorder is caused by deficiency of the enzyme beta-glucuronidase.
In its rarest form, MPS VII causes children to be born with hydrops fetalis, in which extreme amounts of fluid are retained in the body.
Survival is usually a few months or less.
Most children with MPS VII are less severely affected.
Neurological symptoms may include mild to moderate mental retardation by age 3, communicating hydrocephalus, nerve entrapment, corneal clouding, and some loss of peripheral and night vision.
Other symptoms include short stature, some skeletal irregularities, joint stiffness and restricted movement, and umbilical and/or inguinal hernias.
Some patients may have repeated bouts of pneumonia during their first years of life.
Most children with MPS VII live into the teenage or young adult years.
What is HYDRANENCEPHALY?
HYDRANENCEPHALY is a rare condition in which the cerebral hemispheres are absent and replaced by sacs filled with cerebrospinal fluid.
What research is being done for Cushing's Syndrome?
NINDS supports research on Cushing's syndrome aimed at finding new ways to diagnose, treat, and cure the disorder.
What are the symptoms of CRPS?
The key symptom is prolonged pain that may be constant and, in some people, extremely uncomfortable or severe.
The pain may feel like a burning or 'pins and needles' sensation, or as if someone is squeezing the affected limb.
The pain may spread to include the entire arm or leg, even though the precipitating injury might have been only to a finger or toe.
Pain can sometimes even travel to the opposite extremity.
There is often increased sensitivity in the affected area, such that even light touch or contact is painful called allodynia.
What is appendicitis?
Spirt MJ.
Complicated intra-abdominal infections: a focus on appendicitis and diverticulitis.
Postgraduate Medicine.
2010;1221:39 - 51.
What is Physical activity?
Physical activity is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
How do I vent my gas appliances properly?
Horizontal vent pipes to fuel appliances should not be perfectly level.
Indoor vent pipes should go up slightly as they go toward outdoors.
This helps prevent CO or other gases from leaking if the joints or pipes aren't fitted tightly.
What is the prognosis for Locked-In Syndrome?
While in rare cases some patients may regain certain functions, the chances for motor recovery are very limited.
How Is Paget's Disease Diagnosed?
A diagnosis of Paget's disease is often made or confirmed by x ray.
X rays of bone affected by Paget's often show characteristic features.
These may include a classical v-shaped pattern between healthy and diseased long bones, known as the blade of grass lesion, and patches of bone thickening, typically in the skull, referred to as the cotton wool pattern because of its poorly defined and fluffy appearance on x ray.
What is A medulloblastoma?
A medulloblastoma is a type of embryonal tumor.
What is the prognosis for someone with schwannomatosis?
Anyone with schwannomatosis experiences some degree of pain, but the intensity varies.
A small number of people have such mild pain that they are never diagnosed with the disorder.
Most people have significant pain, which can be managed with medications or surgery.
In some extreme cases, pain will be so severe and disabling it will keep people from working or leaving the house.
What research is being done for Whiplash?
The NINDS conducts and supports research on trauma-related disorders such as whiplash.
Much of this research focuses on increasing scientific understanding of these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.
What research is being done for Schizencephaly?
The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the mechanisms of normal brain development.
The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how to prevent or treat developmental brain defects such as schizencephaly.
What Medical Care Should a TBI Patient Receive?
Medical care usually begins when paramedics or emergency medical technicians arrive on the scene of an accident or when a TBI patient arrives at the emergency department of a hospital.
Because little can be done to reverse the initial brain damage caused by trauma, medical personnel try to stabilize the patient and focus on preventing further injury.
Primary concerns include insuring proper oxygen supply to the brain and the rest of the body, maintaining adequate blood flow, and controlling blood pressure.
Emergency medical personnel may have to open the patient's airway or perform other procedures to make sure the patient is breathing.
They may also perform CPR to help the heart pump blood to the body, and they may treat other injuries to control or stop bleeding.
Because many head-injured patients may also have spinal cord injuries, medical professionals take great care in moving and transporting the patient.
Ideally, the patient is placed on a back-board and in a neck restraint.
These devices immobilize the patient and prevent further injury to the head and spinal cord.
Who gets fecal incontinence?
Nearly 18 million U.S.
adults - about one in 12 - have fecal incontinence.
People of any age can have a bowel control problem, though fecal incontinence is more common in older adults.
Fecal incontinence is slightly more common among women.
Having any of the following can increase the risk:
Is there any treatment for Williams Syndrome?
There is no cure for Williams syndrome, nor is there a standard course of treatment.
Because WS is an uncommon and complex disorder, multidisciplinary clinics have been established at several centers in the United States .
Treatments are based on an individual's particular symptoms.
People with WS require regular cardiovascular monitoring for potential medical problems, such as symptomatic narrowing of the blood vessels, high blood pressure, and heart failure.
What research is being done for Lipoid Proteinosis?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH, conduct research related to neurological diseases such as lipoid proteinosis in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders, such as lipoid proteinosis.
What are abdominal adhesions?
Abdominal adhesions are bands of fibrous tissue that can form between abdominal tissues and organs.
Normally, internal tissues and organs have slippery surfaces, preventing them from sticking together as the body moves.
However, abdominal adhesions cause tissues and organs in the abdominal cavity to stick together.
How Are Arrhythmias Treated?
Common arrhythmia treatments include medicines, medical procedures, and surgery.
Your doctor may recommend treatment if your arrhythmia causes serious symptoms, such as dizziness, chest pain, or fainting.
What is the prognosis for Sotos Syndrome?
Sotos syndrome is not a life-threatening disorder and patients may have a normal life expectancy.
The initial abnormalities of Sotos syndrome usually resolve as the growth rate becomes normal after the first few years of life.
Developmental delays may improve in the school-age years, and adults with Sotos syndrome are likely to be within the normal range for intellect and height.
However, coordination problems may persist into adulthood.
Is there any treatment for Tourette Syndrome?
Because tic symptoms do not often cause impairment, the majority of people with TS require no medication for tic suppression.
However, effective medications are available for those whose symptoms interfere with functioning.
There is no one medication that is helpful to all people with TS, nor does any medication completely eliminate symptoms.
Effective medications are also available to treat some of the associated neurobehavioral disorders that can occur in patients with TS.
What products contain lactose?
Lactose is present in many food products and in some medications.
What research is being done for Septo-Optic Dysplasia?
The NINDS supports and conducts neurogenetic research which focuses on identifying and studying the genes involved in normal brain development.
The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how this process can go awry and, thus, may eventually give clues to understanding disorders such as SOD.
What is Anencephaly?
Anencephaly is a defect in the closure of the neural tube during fetal development.
How do I Progress?
After two weeks of strength training, you should reassess the difficulty of each exercise with your current level of weights.
You may start doing the overhead press with one-pound dumbbells, for example.
By the end of the second week, the exercise may feel too easy - that is, you can easily lift the one-pound dumbbell through the full range of motion and in proper form more than twelve times.
You should now step up your weights to two- or three-pound dumbbells and see how the exercise feels at the new weight level.
What is Varicella chickenpox?
Varicella chickenpox is a highly contagious disease that is very uncomfortable and sometimes serious.
What is Bone marrow?
Bone marrow is a sponge-like tissue inside the bones.
What is Breast cancer?
Breast cancer is the most common cancer among teenage and young adult women aged 15 to 39 years.
How is PSC diagnosed?
Blood tests to check levels of liver enzymes are the first step in diagnosing PSC.
Doctors confirm the diagnosis using cholangiography, which provides pictures of the bile ducts.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Congenital Heart Defects?
Normal growth and development depend on a normal workload for the heart and normal flow of oxygen-rich blood to all parts of the body.
Babies who have congenital heart defects may have cyanosis and tire easily while feeding.
As a result, they may not gain weight or grow as they should.
What else causes viral hepatitis?
Some cases of viral hepatitis cannot be attributed to the hepatitis A, B, C, D, or E viruses, or even the less common viruses that can infect the liver, such as cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, herpesvirus, parvovirus, and adenovirus.
These cases are called non-A - E hepatitis.
Scientists continue to study the causes of non-A - E hepatitis.
What is Coronary heart disease CHD?
Coronary heart disease CHD is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque plak builds up inside the coronary arteries.
How many people binge drink? How often? How much?
SOURCE: 2010 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System Combined Landline and Cell Phone Developmental Dataset, adults aged 18 and older, US.
Q.
Can influenza virus infections be prevented in pigs?
A.
It may be possible to lessen the risk of infections in pigs and/or severity of disease by following these management strategies:
What does CDC I Doing to Help Reduce the Prevalence of Health Risk Behavior Among Student?
However, there is no simple solution.
We all have a role to play in ensuring the health of our nation's youth.
Families, schools, community organizations, and youth themselves must work together to help address these health risk behaviors.
What Is Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis?
IPF has no cure yet.
Many people live only about 3 to 5 years after diagnosis.
The most common cause of death related to IPF is respiratory failure.
Other causes of death include pulmonary hypertension HI-per-TEN-shun, heart failure, pulmonary embolism EM-bo-lizm, pneumonia nu-MO-ne-ah, and lung cancer.
Is there any treatment for Apraxia?
Generally, treatment for individuals with apraxia includes physical, speech, or occupational therapy.
If apraxia is a symptom of another disorder, the underlying disorder should be treated.
What is Guillain-Barre Syndrome?
Guillain-Barre syndrome is a disorder in which the body's immune system attacks part of the peripheral nervous system.
The first symptoms of this disorder include varying degrees of weakness or tingling sensations in the legs.
In many instances, the weakness and abnormal sensations spread to the arms and upper body.
These symptoms can increase in intensity until the muscles cannot be used at all and the patient is almost totally paralyzed.
In these cases, the disorder is life-threatening and is considered a medical emergency.
The patient is often put on a ventilator to assist with breathing.
Most patients, however, recover from even the most severe cases of Guillain-Barre syndrome GBS, although some continue to have some degree of weakness.
Guillain-Barre syndrome is rare.
Usually Guillain-Barre occurs a few days or weeks after the patient has had symptoms of a respiratory or gastrointestinal viral infection.
Occasionally, surgery will trigger the syndrome.
In rare instances, vaccinations may increase the risk of GBS.
The disorder can develop over the course of hours or days, or it may take up to 3 to 4 weeks.
No one yet knows why Guillain-Barre strikes some people and not others or what sets the disease in motion.
What scientists do know is that the body's immune system begins to attack the body itself, causing what is known as an autoimmune disease.
Guillain-Barre is called a syndrome rather than a disease because it is not clear that a specific disease-causing agent is involved.
Reflexes such as knee jerks are usually lost.
Because the signals traveling along the nerve are slower, a nerve conduction velocity NCV test can give a doctor clues to aid the diagnosis.
The cerebrospinal fluid that bathes the spinal cord and brain contains more protein than usual, so a physician may decide to perform a spinal tap.
What is Anorexia nervosa?
Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder characterized by an irrational fear of weight gain.
What is Lofgren's syndrome?
Lofgren's syndrome is a classic set of signs and symptoms that is typical in some people who have sarcoidosis.
Who Has Osteoarthritis?
Although osteoarthritis becomes more common with age, younger people can develop it, usually as the result of a joint injury, a joint malformation, or a genetic defect in joint cartilage.
Both men and women have the disease.
Before age 45, more men than women have osteoarthritis; after age 45, it is more common in women.
It is also more likely to occur in people who are overweight and in those with jobs that stress particular joints.
What is Prosopagnosia?
Prosopagnosia is a neurological disorder characterized by the inability to recognize faces.
Prosopagnosia is also known as face blindness or facial agnosia.
The term prosopagnosia comes from the Greek words for 'face' and 'lack of knowledge.' Depending upon the degree of impairment, some people with prosopagnosia may only have difficulty recognizing a familiar face; others will be unable to discriminate between unknown faces, while still others may not even be able to distinguish a face as being different from an object.
Some people with the disorder are unable to recognize their own face.
Prosopagnosia is not related to memory dysfunction, memory loss, impaired vision, or learning disabilities.
Prosopagnosia is thought to be the result of abnormalities, damage, or impairment in the right fusiform gyrus, a fold in the brain that appears to coordinate the neural systems that control facial perception and memory.
Prosopagnosia can result from stroke, traumatic brain injury, or certain neurodegenerative diseases.
In some cases it is a congenital disorder, present at birth in the absence of any brain damage.
Congenital prosopagnosia appears to run in families, which makes it likely to be the result of a genetic mutation or deletion.
Some degree of prosopagnosia is often present in children with autism and Asperger's syndrome, and may be the cause of their impaired social development.
What is Central sleep apnea?
Central sleep apnea is a less common type of sleep apnea.
What does Are the Cause of and Risk Factor for TBI?
Half of all TBIs are due to transportation accidents involving automobiles, motorcycles, bicycles, and pedestrians.
These accidents are the major cause of TBI in people under age 75.
For those 75 and older, falls cause the majority of TBIs.
Approximately 20 percent of TBIs are due to violence, such as firearm assaults and child abuse, and about 3 percent are due to sports injuries.
Fully half of TBI incidents involve alcohol use.
What is Public health surveillance?
Public health surveillance is the ongoing and systematic collection, analysis, interpretation, and dissemination of data used to develop public health interventions that reduce morbidity and mortality and improve health.
What is the prognosis for Mucolipidoses?
Symptoms of ML can be congenital present at birth or begin in early childhood or adolescence.
Early symptoms can include skeletal abnormalities, vision problems and developmental delays.
Over time, many children with ML develop poor mental capacities, have difficulty reaching normal developmental milestones, and, in many cases, eventually die of the disease.
What is Duchenne MD?
Duchenne MD is the most common childhood form of MD, as well as the most common of the muscular dystrophies overall, accounting for approximately 50 percent of all cases.
How do people getSalmonella infections from live baby poultry?
Live poultry may have Salmonella germs in their droppings and on their bodies feathers, feet, and beaks even when they appear healthy and clean.
The germs can also get on cages, coops, hay, plants, and soil in the area where the birds live and roam.
Additionally, the germs can be found on the hands, shoes, and clothing of those who handle the birds or work or play where they live and roam.
Want to learn more?
Stock up on healthier foods that contain fewer calories to help prepare you for weight-loss success!
What is Angina usually?
Angina usually is a symptom of coronary heart disease CHD.
What is Celiac disease?
Celiac disease is an autoimmune disease in which people cannot tolerate gluten.
What is Anaplasmosis?
Anaplasmosis is a tickborne disease caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilum.
What Is a Chest CT Scan?
A chest computed tomography to-MOG-ra-fee scan, or chest CT scan, is a painless, noninvasive test.
It creates precise pictures of the structures in your chest, such as your lungs.
Noninvasive means that no surgery is done and no instruments are inserted into your body.
What is Bacterial meningitis?
Bacterial meningitis is a rare but potentially fatal disease.
How Can Mitral Valve Prolapse Be Prevented?
People at high risk for IE may be given antibiotics before some types of surgery and dental work.
Antibiotics can help prevent IE.
Your doctor will tell you whether you need this type of treatment.
Who Is at Risk for Respiratory Failure?
People who have diseases or conditions that affect the muscles, nerves, bones, or tissues that support breathing are at risk for respiratory failure.
People who have lung diseases or conditions also are at risk for respiratory failure.
For more information, go to What Causes Respiratory Failure?.
What is Heart failure?
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart is damaged or weakened.
What is Risk Watch?
Risk Watch is a school-based curriculum that links teachers with community safety experts and parents.
Is there any treatment for Asperger Syndrome?
An effective treatment program builds on the child's interests, offers a predictable schedule, teaches tasks as a series of simple steps, actively engages the child's attention in highly structured activities, and provides regular reinforcement of behavior.
It may include social skills training, cognitive behavioral therapy, medication for co-existing conditions, and other measures.
What is the upper gastrointestinal tract?
The esophagus carries food and liquids from the mouth to the stomach.
The muscular layers of the esophagus are normally pinched together at both the upper and lower ends by muscles called sphincters.
When a person swallows, the sphincters relax to let food or drink pass from the mouth into the stomach.
The muscles then close rapidly to prevent the food or drink from leaking out of the stomach back into the esophagus.
This process is automatic and people are usually not aware of it, though people sometimes feel food in their esophagus when they swallow something too large, try to eat too quickly, or drink very hot or cold liquids.
Is there any treatment for Alternating Hemiplegia?
Drug therapy including verapamil may help to reduce the severity and duration of attacks of paralysis associated with the more serious form of alternating hemiplegia.
What is An aortic aneurysm AA?
An aortic aneurysm AA is a ballooning or dilatation of the aorta, the large artery that carries blood from the heart through the chest and abdomen.
What are the signs and symptoms of spina bifida?
Meningocele and myelomeningocele generally involve a fluid-filled sac - visible on the back - protruding from the spinal canal.
In meningocele, the sac may be covered by a thin layer of skin.
In most cases of myelomeningocele, there is no layer of skin covering the sac and an area of abnormally developed spinal cord tissue is usually exposed.
What is the prognosis for Williams Syndrome?
The prognosis for individuals with WS varies.
Some degree of mental retardation is found in most people with the disorder.
Some adults are able to function independently, complete academic or vocational school, and live in supervised homes or on their own; most live with a caregiver.
Parents can increase the likelihood that their child will be able to live semi-independently by teaching self-help skills early.
Early intervention and individualized educational programs designed with the distinct cognitive and personality profiles of WS in mind also help individuals maximize their potential.
Medical complications associated with the disorder may shorten the lifespans of some individuals with WS.
What is Thyrotoxic Myopathy?
Thyrotoxic myopathy is a neuromuscular disorder that may accompany hyperthyroidism Graves' disease, caused by overproduction of the thyroid hormone thyroxine.
Symptoms may include muscle weakness, myalgias muscle tenderness, wasting of the pelvic girdle and shoulder muscles, fatigue, and/or heat intolerance.
Thyroid myopathy may be associated with rhabdomyolysis acute muscle breakdown, damage to the muscles that control eye movement, and temporary, but severe, attacks of muscle weakness that are associated with low blood potassium levels known as periodic paralysis.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Mitral Valve Prolapse?
Most people who have mitral valve prolapse MVP aren't affected by the condition.
They don't have any symptoms or major mitral valve backflow.
What is a mini-stroke?
The signs of a TIA are the same as the signs of a regular stroke, but they usually don't last as long.
Never ignore a TIA.
Call 911 right away if you or someone you are with has signs of stroke.
What is Losing weight?
Losing weight is the first step.
Who Is at Risk for Pericarditis?
People who are treated for acute pericarditis may get it again.
This may happen in 15 to 30 percent of people who have the condition.
A small number of these people go on to develop chronic pericarditis.
How is the test done?
The doctor or nurse may test your blood for syphilis.
Sometimes fluid is taken from a sore to see if the sore is caused by syphilis.
What is Conjunctivitis?
Conjunctivitis is a common eye condition worldwide.
What is Stiff-person syndrome SPS?
Stiff-person syndrome SPS is a rare neurological disorder with features of an autoimmune disease.
How do children learn to talk?
In the first few months, your baby listens to your voice and tries to make the same sounds you do.
When you respond to your baby's sounds, you encourage your child to 'talk' more.
Over time, your child will learn more and more words.
How is intestinal pseudo-obstruction diagnosed?
To diagnose intestinal pseudo-obstruction, a health care provider may suggest the person consult a gastroenterologist - a doctor who specializes in digestive diseases.
A health care provider will perform a physical exam; take a complete medical history, imaging studies, and a biopsy; and perform blood tests.
A health care provider may order other tests to confirm the diagnosis.
The health care provider also will look for the cause of the condition, such as an underlying illness.
What is Parkinson's Disease?
Parkinson's disease PD belongs to a group of conditions called motor system disorders, which are the result of the loss of dopamine-producing brain cells.
The four primary symptoms of PD are tremor, or trembling in hands, arms, legs, jaw, and face; rigidity, or stiffness of the limbs and trunk; bradykinesia, or slowness of movement; and postural instability, or impaired balance and coordination.
As these symptoms become more pronounced, patients may have difficulty walking, talking, or completing other simple tasks.
PD usually affects people over the age of 50.
Early symptoms of PD are subtle and occur gradually.
In some people the disease progresses more quickly than in others.
As the disease progresses, the shaking, or tremor, which affects the majority of PD patients may begin to interfere with daily activities.
Other symptoms may include depression and other emotional changes; difficulty in swallowing, chewing, and speaking; urinary problems or constipation; skin problems; and sleep disruptions.
There are currently no blood or laboratory tests that have been proven to help in diagnosing sporadic PD.
Therefore the diagnosis is based on medical history and a neurological examination.
The disease can be difficult to diagnose accurately.
Doctors may sometimes request brain scans or laboratory tests in order to rule out other diseases.
How is PSP diagnosed?
PSP is often misdiagnosed because some of its symptoms are very much like those of Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and more rare neurodegenerative disorders, such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
In fact, PSP is most often misdiagnosed as Parkinson's disease early in the course of the illness.
Memory problems and personality changes may also lead a physician to mistake PSP for depression, or even attribute symptoms to some form of dementia.
The key to diagnosing PSP is identifying early gait instability and difficulty moving the eyes, the hallmark of the disease, as well as ruling out other similar disorders, some of which are treatable.
What is the process for getting a liver transplant?
The process for getting a liver transplant begins with a referral by a doctor to a transplant center.
People seeking a liver transplant are carefully evaluated by a team at the transplant center to determine whether they are suitable candidates for transplantation.
The evaluation includes a complete medical history, physical examination, blood and urine tests, x rays and other imaging tests, and tests to check the function of the heart, lungs, and kidneys.
The transplant team usually includes liver transplant surgeons; liver specialists, called hepatologists; nurses; transplant coordinators; social workers; a psychiatrist; and other specialists.
A financial counselor may help with making arrangements to pay for the transplant.
Is there any treatment for Paroxysmal Choreoathetosis?
Drug therapy, particularly carbamazepine, has been very successful in reducing or eliminating attacks of paroxysmal choreoathetosis.
While carbamazepine is not effective in every case, other drugs have been substituted with good effect.
How Is Pneumonia Treated?
Treatment for pneumonia depends on the type of pneumonia you have and how severe it is.
Most people who have community-acquired pneumonia - the most common type of pneumonia - are treated at home.
What is an inguinal hernia?
An inguinal hernia happens when contents of the abdomen - usually fat or part of the small intestine - bulge through a weak area in the lower abdominal wall.
The abdomen is the area between the chest and the hips.
The area of the lower abdominal wall is also called the inguinal or groin region.
What Does Being a GBS Carrier Mean?
Carrying GBS bacteria also does not mean that you are not clean, and it does not mean that you have a sexually transmitted disease.
The bacteria are not spread from food, sex, water, or anything that you might have come into contact with.
These bacteria can come and go naturally in the body.
What Is Shock?
When a person is in shock from any cause, not enough blood and oxygen are reaching the body's organs.
If shock lasts more than a few minutes, the lack of oxygen starts to damage the body's organs.
If shock isn't treated quickly, it can cause permanent organ damage or death.
What is Eclampsia?
Eclampsia is a life-threatening condition that can develop in pregnant women.
What is Ovarian germ cell tumor?
Ovarian germ cell tumor is a general name that is used to describe several different types of cancer.
Am I at risk for heart disease?
As you get older, your risk for heart disease and having a heart attack increases.
But the good news is that heart disease can be prevented.
What is Zellweger Syndrome?
Peroxisomes are cell structures that break down toxic substances and synthesize lipids fatty acids.
oils, and waxes that are necessary for cell function.
Peroxisomes are required for normal brain development and function and the formation of myelin, the whitish substance that coats nerve fibers.
They are also required for normal eye, liver, kidney, and bone functions.
Zellweger spectrum disorders result from dysfunctional lipid metabolism, including the over-accumulation of very long-chain fatty acids and phytanic acid, and defects of bile acids and plasmalogens--specialized lipids found in cell membranes and myelin sheaths of nerve fibers.
Symptoms of these disorders include an enlarged liver; characteristic facial features such as a high forehead, underdeveloped eyebrow ridges, and wide-set eyes; and neurological abnormalities such as mental retardation and seizures.
Infants will Zellweger syndrome also lack muscle tone, sometimes to the point of being unable to move, and may not be able to suck or swallow.
Some babies will be born with glaucoma, retinal degeneration, and impaired hearing.
Jaundice and gastrointestinal bleeding also may occur.
Who is at risk for hepatitis A?
people living in areas where children are not routinely vaccinated against hepatitis A, where outbreaks are more likely.
How can human infections with variant influenza viruses be diagnosed?
To diagnose variant influenza A virus infection, a respiratory specimen would generally need to be collected within the first 4 to 5 days of illness when an infected person is most likely to be shedding virus.
However, some persons, especially children, may shed virus for 10 days or longer.
Since the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, state health departments have the ability to test for novel non-human influenza viruses.
However, if a variant influenza virus is suspected, it is sent to CDC for further testing.
What Is Hemophilia?
If you have hemophilia, you may bleed for a longer time than others after an injury.
You also may bleed inside your body internally, especially in your knees, ankles, and elbows.
This bleeding can damage your organs and tissues and may be life threatening.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Marfan Syndrome?
Marfan complications also vary, depending on how the condition affects your body.
Marfan syndrome most often affects the connective tissue of the heart, eyes, bones, lungs, and covering of the spinal cord.
This can cause many complications, some of which are life threatening.
How Is Rheumatoid Arthritis Treated?
Doctors use a variety of approaches to treat rheumatoid arthritis.
These are used in different combinations and at different times during the course of the disease and are chosen according to the patient's individual situation.
No matter what treatment the doctor and patient choose, however, the goals are the same: to relieve pain, reduce inflammation, slow down or stop joint damage, and improve the person's sense of well-being and ability to function.
What is IMRT IMRT?
IMRT IMRT is a radiation therapy technique that allows for conformal dosing of target anatomy while sparing neighboring tissue.
What research is being done for Benign Essential Blepharospasm?
The NINDS supports a broad program of research on disorders of the nervous system, including BEB.
Much of this research is aimed at increasing understanding of these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
Will These Drugs Also Help Improve the Complications I Have From Paget's Disease?
The drugs may help prevent complications from starting or prevent them from getting worse, but they cannot correct problems that have already set in.
In some cases, surgery can help.
Your doctor can tell you if surgery might be a good idea for you.
What is Adolescence?
Adolescence is the most critical period for building bone mass that helps protect against osteoporosis later in life.
What are Adult Literacy and Numeracy?
The U.S.
Department of Education defines adult literacy and numeracy in terms of skills that help people accomplish tasks and realize their purposes.
Researchers can measure literacy and numeracy skills, but skills are not static.
People can build their skills, and even adults with limited skills can get better results when their environments accommodate the skills they have.
How does smoking affect colon polyps?
People who smoke are more likely to develop colon polyps.
Colon polyps are growths on the inside surface of the colon or rectum.
Some polyps are benign, or noncancerous, while some are cancerous or may become cancerous.
What Are Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency?
Sleeping is a basic human need, like eating, drinking, and breathing.
Like these other needs, sleeping is a vital part of the foundation for good health and well-being throughout your lifetime.
What is the prognosis for Hydrocephalus?
The prognosis for individuals diagnosed with hydrocephalus is difficult to predict, although there is some correlation between the specific cause of the hydrocephalus and the outcome.
Prognosis is further clouded by the presence of associated disorders, the timeliness of diagnosis, and the success of treatment.
The degree to which relief of CSF pressure following shunt surgery can minimize or reverse damage to the brain is not well understood.
Affected individuals and their families should be aware that hydrocephalus poses risks to both cognitive and physical development.
However, many children diagnosed with the disorder benefit from rehabilitation therapies and educational interventions and go on to lead normal lives with few limitations.
Treatment by an interdisciplinary team of medical professionals, rehabilitation specialists, and educational experts is critical to a positive outcome.
Left untreated, progressive hydrocephalus may be fatal.
What is Multiple system atrophy MSA?
Multiple system atrophy MSA is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by symptoms of autonomic nervous system failure such as fainting spells and bladder control problems, combined with motor control symptoms such as tremor, rigidity, and loss of muscle coordination.
What Causes Osteogenesis Imperfecta?
Each of the genes that cause OI plays a role in how the body makes collagen.
Collagen is a material in bones that helps make them strong.
When these genes aren't working properly, there isn't enough collagen, or the collagen doesn't work properly.
This leads to weak bones that break easily.
What is the prognosis for Leukodystrophy?
The prognosis for the leukodystrophies varies according to the specific type of leukodystrophy.
How Are Asbestos-Related Lung Diseases Treated?
No treatments can reverse the effects of asbestos on your lungs.
However, treatments may help relieve symptoms and prevent or delay complications.
If you have lung cancer, treatments may help slow the progress of the disease.
What Is Cardiac CT?
Sometimes an iodine-based dye contrast dye is injected into one of your veins during the scan.
The contrast dye highlights your coronary heart arteries on the x-ray pictures.
This type of CT scan is called a coronary CT angiography an-je-OG-rah-fee, or CTA.
What are the risks of flexible sigmoidoscopy?
Bleeding and perforation are the most common complications from flexible sigmoidoscopy.
Most cases of bleeding occur in people who have polyps removed.
The health care provider can treat bleeding that occurs during the flexible sigmoidoscopy right away.
However, a person may have delayed bleeding up to 2 weeks after the test.
The health care provider diagnoses delayed bleeding with a colonoscopy or repeat flexible sigmoidoscopy and treats it with an electrical probe or special medication.
A person may need surgery to treat perforation.
How Can Cardiogenic Shock Be Prevented?
Act in time.
Know the warning signs of a heart attack so you can act fast to get treatment.
Many heart attack victims wait 2 hours or more after their symptoms begin before they seek medical help.
Delays in treatment increase the risk of complications and death.
What is Getting the flu vaccine?
Getting the flu vaccine is the first and most important step in protecting yourself from the flu.
How are motor neuron diseases diagnosed?
Magnetic resonance imaging MRI uses a powerful magnetic field to produce detailed images of tissues, organs, bones, nerves, and other body structures.
MRI is often used to rule out diseases that affect the head, neck, and spinal cord.
MRI images can help diagnose brain and spinal cord tumors, eye disease, inflammation, infection, and vascular irregularities that may lead to stroke.
MRI can also detect and monitor inflammatory disorders such as multiple sclerosis and can document brain injury from trauma.
Magnetic resonance spectroscopy is a type of MRI scan that measures chemicals in the brain and may be used to evaluate the integrity of the upper motor neurons.
What is The CDC Vital Signs program?
The CDC Vital Signs program is a call to action each month concerning a single, important public health topic.
What is Cigarette smoking?
Cigarette smoking is the leading cause of COPD.
What should you expect during a Coronary Calcium Scan?
The coronary calcium scan will take about 10 - 15 minutes, although the actual scanning will take only a few seconds.
During the test, the machine will make clicking and whirring sounds as it takes pictures.
The scan causes no discomfort, but the exam room might be chilly to keep the machine working properly.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a painless, noninvasive test that creates pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels.
How Is Lymphocytopenia Diagnosed?
A low lymphocyte count alone may not cause any signs or symptoms.
Thus, the condition often is diagnosed during testing for other diseases or conditions.
Who is at risk for lead poisoning?
Lead poisoning often has no signs or symptoms, but it can cause problems with kids' learning, behavior, and development.
Some effects of lead poisoning may never go away.
What Causes Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis?
In most cases, however, the cause of lung scarring isn't known.
These cases are called idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF.
With IPF, doctors think that something inside or outside of the lungs attacks them again and again over time.
Can I go back to my daily activities?
After a successful liver transplant, most people can go back to their normal daily activities, and many return to work.
Getting your strength back may take months, though, especially if you were very sick before the transplant.
Your doctor will let you know how long your recovery period will be.
Social workers and support groups can help you adjust to life with a new liver.
What research is being done for Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia?
The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders such as HSP.
More than 30 genes that are responsible for several forms of HSP have been identified, and many more will likely be identified in the future.
These genes generally encode proteins that normally help maintain the function of axons in the spinal cord.
Understanding how mutations of these genes cause HSP should lead to ways to prevent, treat, and cure HSP.
Is there any treatment for Canavan Disease?
Canavan disease causes progressive brain atrophy.
There is no cure, nor is there a standard course of treatment.
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
Why Is Sleep Important?
The damage from sleep deficiency can occur in an instant such as a car crash, or it can harm you over time.
For example, ongoing sleep deficiency can raise your risk for some chronic health problems.
It also can affect how well you think, react, work, learn, and get along with others.
Is there any treatment for Todd's Paralysis?
There is no treatment for Todd's paralysis.
Individuals must rest as comfortably as possible until the paralysis disappears.
How Can I Make Needed Changes to Improve My Bone Health?
If you recognize some of these signs in yourself, the best thing you can do is to make your diet more healthful.
That includes consuming enough calories to support your activity level.
If you've missed periods, it's best to check with a doctor to make sure it's not a sign of some other problem and to get his or her help as you work toward a more healthy balance of food and exercise.
Also, a doctor can help you take steps to protect your bones from further damage.
What are the symptoms of gas?
Bloating.
Bloating is a feeling of fullness and swelling in the abdomen, the area between the chest and hips.
Disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome IBS can affect how gas moves through the intestines.
If gas moves through your intestines too slowly, you may feel bloated.
Is there any treatment for Neuromyelitis Optica?
There is no cure for NMO and no FDA-approved therapies, but there are therapies to treat an attack while it is happening, to reduce symptoms, and to prevent relapses.
Therapies used in the U.S.
include a corticosteroid drug methylprednisolone to stop the initial attack, immunosuppressent drugs such as mycophenolate mofetil CellCept and azathioprine Imuran, and the monoclonal antibody ritixumab Rituxan.
If frequent relapses occur, some individuals may need to continue a low dose of steroids for longer periods.
Plasma exchange plasmapheresis is a technique that separates antibodies out of the blood stream and is used with people who are unresponsive to corticosteroid therapy.
Pain, stiffness, muscle spasms, and bladder and bowel control problems can be managed with the appropriate medications and therapies.
Individuals with major disability will require the combined efforts of occupational therapists, physiotherapists, and social services professionals to address their complex rehabilitation needs.
What Does a Coronary Calcium Scan Show?
The test is positive if calcifications are found in your arteries.
Calcifications are a sign of atherosclerosis ATH-er-o-skler-O-sis and coronary heart disease CHD.
Atherosclerosis is a condition in which plaque builds up in the arteries.
The higher your Agatston score is, the more severe the atherosclerosis.
What is Panitumumab Panitumumab?
Panitumumab Panitumumab is a fully humanized antibody against the EGFR.
What is N-acetylcysteine?
N-acetylcysteine is an antioxidant that may help prevent lung damage.
Should I Give My Kids Calcium Supplements?
Experts believe calcium should come from food sources whenever possible.
However, if you think your children are not getting adequate calcium from their diet, you may want to consider a calcium supplement.
How long does the Hepatitis C virus survive outside the body?
The Hepatitis C virus can survive outside the body at room temperature, on environmental surfaces, for at least 16 hours but no longer than 4 days.
What are the bile and pancreatic ducts?
Ducts are tubelike structures in the body that carry fluids.
The bile ducts carry bile, a liquid the liver makes to help break down food.
A group of small bile ducts - called the biliary tree - in the liver empties bile into the larger common bile duct.
Between meals, the common bile duct closes and bile collects in the gallbladder - a pear-shaped sac next to the liver.
What is the prognosis for Gaucher Disease?
Enzyme replacement therapy is very beneficial for type 1 and most type 3 patients with this condition.
Who is more likely to have intestinal pseudo-obstruction?
This condition can occur in people of any age.
Some infants are born with congenital intestinal pseudo-obstruction, and some people develop this condition as adults.
Intestinal pseudo-obstruction may be acute, occurring suddenly and lasting a short time, or it may be chronic, or long lasting.
What Are Congenital Heart Defects?
Most people who have complex heart defects continue to need special heart care throughout their lives.
They may need to pay special attention to how their condition affects issues such as health insurance, employment, birth control and pregnancy, and other health issues.
What Are Sleep Studies?
Sleep studies are important because untreated sleep disorders can raise your risk for heart disease, high blood pressure, stroke, and other medical conditions.
Sleep disorders also have been linked to an increased risk of injury, such as falling in the elderly and car accidents.
How are NCLs inherited?
Childhood NCLs are autosomal recessive disorders; that is, they occur only when a child inherits two copies of the defective gene, one from each parent.
When both parents carry one defective gene, each of their children faces a one in four chance of developing NCL.
At the same time, each child also faces a one in two chance of inheriting just one copy of the defective gene.
Individuals who have only one defective gene are known as carriers, meaning they do not develop the disease, but they can pass the gene on to their own children.
Because the mutated genes that are involved in certain forms of Batten disease are known, carrier detection is possible in some instances.
What is Incontinentia Pigmenti?
Incontinentia pigmenti IP is an inherited disorder of skin pigmentation that is also associated with abnormalities of the teeth, skeletal system, eyes, and central nervous system.
It is one of a group of gene-linked diseases known as neurocutaneous disorders.
In most cases, IP is caused by mutations in a gene called NEMO NF-kappaB essential modulator.
Males are more severely affected than females.
Discolored skin is caused by excessive deposits of melanin normal skin pigment.
Most newborns with IP will develop discolored skin within the first two weeks.
The pigmentation involves the trunk and extremities, is slate-grey, blue or brown, and is distributed in irregular marbled or wavy lines.
The discoloration fades with age.
Neurological problems include loss of brain tissue known as cerebral atrophy, the formation of small cavities in the central white matter of the brain, and the loss of neurons in the cerebellar cortex.
About 20% of children with IP will have slow motor development, muscle weakness in one or both sides of the body, mental retardation, and seizures.
They are also likely to have visual problems, including crossed eyes, cataracts, and severe visual loss.
Dental problems are also common, including missing or peg-shaped teeth.
A related disorder, incontinentia pigmenti achromians, features skin patterns of light, unpigmented swirls and streaks that are the reverse of IP.
Associated neurological problems are similar.
What happens when the spinal cord is injured?
Traumatic spinal cord injury usually begins with a sudden, mechanical blow or rupture to the spine that fractures or dislocates vertebrae.
The damage begins at the moment of primary injury, when the cord is stretched or displaced by bone fragments or disc material.
Nerve signaling stops immediately but may not return rapidly even if there is no structural damage to the cord.
In severe injury, axons are cut or damaged beyond repair, and neural cell membranes are broken.
Blood vessels may rupture and cause bleeding into the spinal cord's central tissue, or bleeding can occur outside the cord, causing pressure by the blood clot on the cord.
What research is being done for Agnosia?
The NINDS supports research on disorders of the brain such as agnosia with the goal of finding ways to prevent or cure them.
Is there any treatment for Pervasive Developmental Disorders?
There is no known cure for PDD.
Medications are used to address specific behavioral problems; therapy for children with PDD should be specialized according to need.
Some children with PDD benefit from specialized classrooms in which the class size is small and instruction is given on a one-to-one basis.
Others function well in standard special education classes or regular classes with additional support.
What is Spina bifida SB?
Spina bifida SB is a neural tube defect a disorder involving incomplete development of the brain, spinal cord, and/or their protective coverings caused by the failure of the fetus's spine to close properly during the first month of pregnancy.
Are you a small business wondering how much obesity costs your organization? Or perhaps a state employer who wants to know how much an obesity intervention will cost?
LEAN for Life: Leading Employees to Activity and Nutrition is a free, Web-based resource that offers an obesity cost calculator to project your company's financial return.
It also offers interactive tools and the latest evidence-based research for organizations to design effective worksite obesity prevention and control programs.
Who Is at Risk for ARDS?
People at risk for ARDS have a condition or illness that can directly or indirectly injure their lungs.
What is Spina bifida?
Spina bifida is the incomplete development of the spinal cord and/or its protective covering.
What is the prognosis for Moebius Syndrome?
There is no cure for Moebius syndrome.
In spite of the impairments that characterize the disorder, proper care and treatment give many individuals a normal life expectancy.
How can I help research?
The NINDS supports two national human brain specimen banks.
These banks supply investigators around the world with tissue from patients with neurological and psychiatric diseases.
Both banks need brain tissue from Batten disease patients to enable scientists to study this disorder more intensely.
Prospective donors or their families should contact:
What is Sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a common sleep disorder characterized by brief interruptions of breathing during sleep.
How Is Bronchiectasis Treated?
Bronchiectasis often is treated with medicines, hydration, and chest physical therapy CPT.
Your doctor may recommend surgery if the bronchiectasis is isolated to a section of lung or you have a lot of bleeding.
How can I tell if I'm at risk for a drinking problem?
Use this tool to see if your drinking habits put you at risk.
If you are drinking too much, you can improve your health by cutting down or quitting.
What is Gardening?
Gardening is a great outdoor activity for people of all ages.
1.
How often should I do strength training?
New guidelines from Health and Human Services suggest strength training on 2 or more days a week that work all major muscle groups legs, hips, back, abdomen, chest, shoulders, and arms.
Be sure to give your muscles at least one day of rest between workouts.
For more, visit How much physical activity do older adults need?
What Causes Heart Block?
Heart block has many causes.
Some people are born with the disorder congenital, while others develop it during their lifetimes acquired.
What is Kennedy's disease?
Kennedy's disease is an x-linked recessive disease, which means the patient's mother carries the defective gene on one of her X chromosomes.
Is there any treatment for Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's Disease?
Unlike previous surgeries for PD, DBS involves minimal permanent surgical changes to the brain.
Instead, the procedure uses electrical stimulation to regulate electrical signals in neural circuits to and from identified areas in the brain to improve PD symptoms.
Thus, if DBS causes unwanted side effects or newer, more promising treatments develop in the future, the implantable pulse generator can be removed, and the DBS procedure can be halted.
Also, stimulation from the IPG is easily adjustable - without further surgery - if the person's condition changes.
Some people describe the pulse generator adjustments as programming..
What are influenza antiviral drugs?
Influenza antiviral drugs are prescription medicines pills, liquid or an inhaler that fight against the flu by keeping flu viruses from reproducing in your body.
Antiviral drugs can make your illness milder and make you feel better faster.
They may also prevent serious flu complications.
This could be especially important for people at high risk.
What is constipation in children?
Constipation in children is a condition in which a child has fewer than two bowel movements a week or has bowel movements with stools that are hard, dry, and small, making them painful or difficult to pass.
The child may feel bloated or have pain in the abdomen - the area between the chest and hips.
Children with constipation may be unable to push all of the stool out of their body.
What is A cardiologist?
A cardiologist is a heart specialist.
How does cerebral palsy impact children?
CDC estimates that about 1 in every 323 children living in multiple communities in the United States has cerebral palsy.
CDC's estimate comes from the Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring ADDM Network, which tracks the number and characteristics of 8-year-old children with autism spectrum disorder and other developmental disabilities in diverse communities through the United States.
Based on our most recent report on children who were 8-years-old and living in ADDM CP Network communities in 2008, we know that:
What are Febrile Seizures?
Febrile seizures are convulsions brought on by a fever in infants or small children.
During a febrile seizure, a child often loses consciousness and shakes.
Less commonly, a child becomes rigid or has twitches in only a portion of the body.
Most febrile seizures last a minute or two; some can be as brief as a few seconds, while others last for more than 15 minutes.
Approximately one in every 25 children will have at least one febrile seizure.
Febrile seizures usually occur in children between the ages of 6 months and 3 years and are particularly common in toddlers.
The older a child is when the first febrile seizure occurs, the less likely that child is to have more.
A few factors appear to boost a child's risk of having recurrent febrile seizures, including young age less than 15 months during the first seizures, frequent fevers, and having immediate family members with a history of febrile seizures.
What are the effects of stroke?
Stroke can affect the whole body.
A stroke can cause problems with:
How does milk get contaminated?
Pasteurization is the only way to kill many of the bacteria in milk that can make people very sick.
Who is affected?
Trigeminal neuralgia occurs most often in people over age 50, although it can occur at any age, including infancy.
The possibility of TN being caused by multiple sclerosis increases when it occurs in young adults.
The incidence of new cases is approximately 12 per 100,000 people per year; the disorder is more common in women than in men.
Who Is at Risk for Anemia?
Anemia can develop during pregnancy due to low levels of iron and folic acid folate and changes in the blood.
During the first 6 months of pregnancy, the fluid portion of a woman's blood the plasma increases faster than the number of red blood cells.
This dilutes the blood and can lead to anemia.
What causes gas?
Normally, few bacteria live in the small intestine.
Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is an increase in the number of bacteria or a change in the type of bacteria in the small intestine.
These bacteria can produce excess gas and may also cause diarrhea and weight loss.
Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is usually related to diseases or disorders that damage the digestive system or affect how it works, such as Crohn's disease - an inflammatory bowel disease that causes inflammation, or swelling, and irritation of any part of the gastrointestinal GI tract - or diabetes.
Am I at risk for colorectal cancer?
Health conditions, such as Crohn's Disease, which causes chronic inflammation ongoing irritation of the intestines.
What research is being done for Paraneoplastic Syndromes?
Research on paraneoplastic syndromes is aimed at enhancing scientific understanding and evaluating new therapeutic interventions.
Researchers seek to learn what causes the autoimmune response in these disorders.
Studies are directed at developing tests that detect the presence of antibodies.
Scientists also hope to develop animal models for these diseases, which may be used to determine effective treatment strategies.
How is Heart surgery used?
Heart surgery is used to fix leaflets that don't open as wide as they should.
What is A respirator?
A respirator is a personal protective device that is worn on the face, covers at least the nose and mouth, and is used to reduce the wearer's risk of inhaling hazardous airborne particles including dust particles and infectious agents, gases, or vapors.
What are the problems of gastroparesis?
gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD, which is GER that occurs more than twice a week for a few weeks; GERD can lead to esophagitis - irritation of the esophagus.
Want to learn more?
Your eating habits may be leading to weight gain; for example, eating too fast, always clearing your plate, eating when you not hungry and skipping meals or maybe just breakfast.
What is A hematologist?
A hematologist is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating blood disorders.
How Is Scoliosis Diagnosed?
Location.
To identify a curve's location, doctors find the apex of the curve the vertebra within the curve that is the most off-center; the location of the apex is the 'location' of the curve.
A thoracic curve has its apex in the thoracic area the part of the spine to which the ribs attach.
A lumbar curve has its apex in the lower back.
A thoracolumbar curve has its apex where the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae join see 'Normal Spine' diagram.
What are the complications of constipation in children?
Constipation in children can lead to fecal impaction if hard stool packs the intestine and rectum so tightly that the normal pushing action of the colon is not enough to expel the stool.
The impaction should be cleared using an enema or large doses of oral laxatives for other treatments to be effective.
Constipation in children can also lead to anal fissures - small tears in the anus that may cause itching, pain, or bleeding - or rectal prolapse - a condition in which the rectum slips so that it protrudes from the anus.
What Kinds of Doctors Evaluate and Treat Knee Problems?
After an examination by your primary care doctor, he or she may refer you to a rheumatologist, an orthopaedic surgeon, or both.
A rheumatologist specializes in nonsurgical treatment of arthritis and other rheumatic diseases.
An orthopaedic surgeon, or orthopaedist, specializes in nonsurgical and surgical treatment of bones, joints, and soft tissues such as ligaments, tendons, and muscles.
What is High blood pressure?
High blood pressure is a common and dangerous condition.
What research is being done for Tuberous?
Research studies run the gamut from very basic scientific investigation to clinical translational research.
For example, some investigators are trying to identify all the protein components that are in the same 'signaling pathway' in which the TSC1 and TSC2 protein products and the mTOR protein are involved.
Other studies are focused on understanding in detail how the disease develops, both in animal models and in patients, to better define new ways of controlling or preventing the development of the disease.
Finally, clinical trials of rapamycin are underway with NINDS and NCI support to rigorously test the potential benefit of this compound for some of the tumors that are problematic in TSC patients.
What can I do to check that animals are healthy before I bring them into a school or daycare classroom?
Ensure that personnel providing animals for educational purposes are knowledgeable regarding animal handling and zoonotic disease issues.
Persons or facilities that display animals to the public should be licensed by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture.
What is the upper gastrointestinal tract?
The esophagus carries food and liquids from the mouth to the stomach.
The muscular layers of the esophagus are normally pinched together at both the upper and lower ends by muscles called sphincters.
When a person swallows, the sphincters relax to let food or drink pass from the mouth into the stomach.
The muscles then close rapidly to prevent the food or drink from leaking out of the stomach and back into the esophagus.
This process is automatic and people are usually not aware of it, though people sometimes feel food in their esophagus when they swallow something too large, try to eat too quickly, or drink very hot or cold liquids.
What should you expect during a Chest CT Scan?
Moving your body can cause the pictures to blur.
The technician will ask you to lie still and hold your breath for short periods.
This will help make the pictures as clear as possible.
What are the symptoms?
As the disease progresses, most people will begin to develop a blurring of vision and problems controlling eye movement.
In fact, eye problems usually offer the first definitive clue that PSP is the proper diagnosis.
Individuals affected by PSP have trouble voluntarily shifting their gaze downward, and also can have trouble controlling their eyelids.
This can lead to involuntary closing of the eyes, prolonged or infrequent blinking, or difficulty in opening the eyes.
What causes iron deficiency?
Substances such as polyphenols, phytates, or calcium that are part of some foods or drinks such as tea, coffee, whole grains, legumes and milk or dairy products can decrease the amount of non-heme iron absorbed at a meal.
Calcium can also decrease the amount heme-iron absorbed at a meal.
However, for healthy individuals who consume a varied diet that conforms to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, the amount of iron inhibition from these substances is usually not of concern.
What is Cancer of the colon?
Cancer of the colon is a highly treatable and often curable disease when localized to the bowel.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
What is Carotid angiography?
Carotid angiography is a special type of x ray.
What research is being done for Meralgia Paresthetica?
Within the NINDS research programs, meralgia paresthetica is addressed primarily through studies associated with pain research.
NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for pain and nerve damage with the ultimate goal of reversing these debilitating conditions.
How is viral gastroenteritis treated?
Most cases of viral gastroenteritis resolve over time without specific treatment.
Antibiotics are not effective against viral infections.
The primary goal of treatment is to reduce symptoms and prevent complications.
What else can I do to help prevent illness or injury when animals are in schools or daycare classrooms, or during a school trip to an animal exhibit?
Certain animals should not be allowed in schools and day cares with children younger than 5 years of age including reptiles e.g., turtles, snakes, and lizards, amphibians e.g., frogs, toads, salamanders, and newts, live poultry e.g., chicks, ducklings, and goslings and ferrets.
What is Tetanus?
Tetanus is an infection caused by bacteria.
When the bacteria invade the body, they produce a toxin, or poison, that causes your muscles to tighten and cramp painfully.
Tetanus infection mainly affects the neck, chest, and stomach.
Tetanus is also called lockjaw because it often causes a person's neck and jaw muscles to lock, making it hard to open the mouth or swallow.
It can also cause breathing problems, severe muscle spasms, and seizures.
The muscle spasms can be strong enough to break your bones, and you might have to spend several weeks in the hospital under intensive care.
Complete recovery can take months.
If left untreated, tetanus can be deadly.
Want to Know More About Measles?
Click 'Disease of the Week,' find measles, and take the quiz to test your knowledge! Available on iOS, Android and Windows 8 tablets.
What is SCD?
SCD is a genetic condition that is present at birth.
What are the risks of a lower gastrointestinal series?
leakage of barium into the abdomen - the area between the chest and the hips - through an undetected tear or hole in the lining of the large intestine.
This complication is rare; however, it usually requires emergency surgery to repair.
How are these disorders treated?
Currently there is no specific treatment available for most of the lipid storage disorders but highly effective enzyme replacement therapy is available for patients with type 1 Gaucher disease and some patients with type 3 Gaucher disease.
Patients with anemia may require blood transfusions.
In some patients, the enlarged spleen must be removed to improve cardiopulmonary function.
The drugs phenytoin and carbamazepine may be prescribed to help treat pain including bone pain for patients with Fabry disease.
Restricting one's diet does not prevent lipid buildup in cells and tissues.
What is Concept mapping?
Concept mapping is a tool that helps with strategic planning.
What is intestinal pseudo-obstruction?
Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a rare condition with symptoms that resemble those caused by a blockage, or obstruction, of the intestines, also called the bowel.
However, when a health care provider examines the intestines, no blockage exists.
Instead, the symptoms are due to nerve or muscle problems that affect the movement of food, fluid, and air through the intestines.
How Can Death Due to Sudden Cardiac Arrest Be Prevented?
Ways to prevent death due to sudden cardiac arrest SCA differ depending on whether:
Is there any treatment for Familial Periodic Paralyses?
Treatment of the periodic paralyses focuses on preventing further attacks and relieving acute symptoms.
Avoiding carbohydrate-rich meals and strenuous exercise, and taking acetazolamide daily may prevent hypokalemic attacks.
Attacks can be managed by drinking a potassium chloride oral solution.
Eating carbohydrate-rich, low-potassium foods, and avoiding strenuous exercise and fasting, can help prevent hyperkalemic attacks.
Dichorphenamide may prevent attacks.
Why is childhood obesity considered a health problem?
Childhood obesity is associated with various health-related consequences.
Obese children and adolescents may experience immediate health consequences and may be at risk for weight-related health problems in adulthood.
What research is being done for Barth Syndrome?
The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders such as Barth syndrome, including basic research on mitochondrial dysfunction and investigations of other inborn errors of metabolism.
The 1996 discovery of the Barth gene is helping scientists and physicians better understand the metabolic and biochemical abnormalities seen in the disease and learn how genes cause heart disease, muscle weakness, and other problems in the body.
The ultimate goal of this research is to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure these disorders.
How Should I Use Arthritis Medicine?
Before you leave the doctor's office, make sure you ask about the best way to take the medicine the doctor prescribes.
For example, you may need to take some medicines with milk, or you may need to eat something just before or after taking them, to make sure they don't upset your stomach.
What Research is Being Done?
Parkinson's Disease Clinical Studies offer an opportunity to help researchers find better ways to safely detect, treat, or prevent PD and therefore hope for individuals now and in the future.
NINDS conducts clinical studies on Parkinson's disease at the NIH research campus in Bethesda, Maryland, and supports PD studies at medical research centers throughout the United States.
But studies can be completed only if people volunteer to participate.
By participating in a clinical study, healthy individuals and people living with Parkinson's disease can greatly benefit the lives of those affected by this disorder.
Talk with your doctor about clinical studies and help to make the difference in improving the quality of life for all people with Parkinson's disease.
For more information about NINDS clinical trials on PD, see http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results?term=Parkinson%27s+disease+AND+NINDS.
Current studies include genetics and PD, search for PD biomarkers, experimental therapies and other treatment options, diagnostic imaging, brain control and movement disorders, DBS, and exercise and PD.
Is there any treatment for Fabry Disease?
Enzyme replacement therapy has been approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of Fabry disease.
Enzyme replacement therapy can reduce lipid storage, ease pain, and improve organ function.
The pain that accompanies the disease may be treated with anticonvulsants such as phenytoin and carbamazepine.
Gastrointestinal hyperactivity may be treated with metoclopramide.
Some individuals may require dialysis or kidney transplantation.
What is A ventilator VEN-til-a-tor?
A ventilator VEN-til-a-tor is a machine that supports breathing.
How does digestion work?
Digestion works by moving food through the GI tract.
Digestion begins in the mouth with chewing and ends in the small intestine.
As food passes through the GI tract, it mixes with digestive juices, causing large molecules of food to break down into smaller molecules.
The body then absorbs these smaller molecules through the walls of the small intestine into the bloodstream, which delivers them to the rest of the body.
Waste products of digestion pass through the large intestine and out of the body as a solid matter called stool.
What is The CT scan?
The CT scan is a noninvasive x ray that produces three-dimensional pictures of parts of the body.
What Is Inflammatory Bowel Disease?
Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are also known as inflammatory bowel diseases.
Crohn's disease tends to affect the small intestine, although any part of the digestive tract may be involved.
Ulcerative colitis usually causes an inflammation in all or part of the large intestine.
People with inflammatory bowel disease IBD often have diarrhea, abdominal pain, fever, and weight loss.
What is the prognosis for Herpes Zoster Oticus?
Generally, the prognosis of herpes zoster oticus is good.
However, in some cases, hearing loss may be permanent.
Vertigo may last for days or weeks.
Facial paralysis may be temporary or permanent.
What is the prognosis for Complex?
The outcome of CRPS varies from person to person.
Almost all children and teenagers have good recovery.
Occasionally individuals are left with unremitting pain and crippling, irreversible changes despite treatment.
Anecdotal evidence suggests early treatment, particularly rehabilitation, is helpful in limiting the disorder, but this benefit has not yet been proven in clinical studies.
More research is needed to understand the causes of CRPS, how it progresses, and the role of early treatment.
Higher functioning children with prenatal alcohol exposure: Is there a specific neurocognitive profile?
Child Neuropsychology: A Journal on Normal and Abnormal Development in Childhood and Adolescence; 2013; 196:561-578
How serious is this infection in dogs?
The number of dogs infected with this disease that die is very small.
Some dogs have asymptomatic infections no symptoms, while some have severe infections.
Severe illness is characterized by the onset of pneumonia.
Although this is a relatively new cause of disease in dogs and nearly all dogs are susceptible to infection, about 80 percent of dogs will have a mild form of disease.
What is Atherosclerosis?
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside the arteries.
What Is Sarcoidosis?
These cells release chemicals that recruit other cells to isolate and destroy the harmful substance.
Inflammation occurs during this process.
Once the harmful substance is gone, the cells and the inflammation go away.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing.
Who can get this vaccine?
Fluzone High-Dose is approved for use in people 65 years of age and older.
As with all flu vaccines, Fluzone High-Dose is not recommended for people who have had a severe reaction to the flu vaccine in the past.
What Does Sleep Do For Us?
Deep sleep coincides with the release of growth hormone in children and young adults.
Many of the body's cells also show increased production and reduced breakdown of proteins during deep sleep.
Since proteins are the building blocks needed for cell growth and for repair of damage from factors like stress and ultraviolet rays, deep sleep may truly be beauty sleep.
Activity in parts of the brain that control emotions, decision-making processes, and social interactions is drastically reduced during deep sleep, suggesting that this type of sleep may help people maintain optimal emotional and social functioning while they are awake.
A study in rats also showed that certain nerve-signaling patterns which the rats generated during the day were repeated during deep sleep.
This pattern repetition may help encode memories and improve learning.
How are gallstones treated?
If gallstones are not causing symptoms, treatment is usually not needed.
However, if a person has a gallbladder attack or other symptoms, a health care provider will usually recommend treatment.
A person may be referred to a gastroenterologist - a doctor who specializes in digestive diseases - for treatment.
If a person has had one gallbladder attack, more episodes will likely follow.
What causes gastritis?
Helicobacter pylori H.
pylori infection causes most cases of chronic nonerosive gastritis.
H.
pylori are bacteria that infect the stomach lining.
H.
pylori are primarily transmitted from person to person.
In areas with poor sanitation, H.
pylori may be transmitted through contaminated food or water.
What is the prognosis for Rasmussen's Encephalitis?
The prognosis for individuals with Rasmussen's encephalitis varies.
Despite the advances in medical treatment, none has yet been shown to halt the progress of the disease in the long term.
The disorder may lead to severe neurological deficits or it may cause only milder impairments.
For some children, surgery decreases seizures.
However, most individuals with Rasmussen's encephalitis are left with some paralysis, cognitive deficits, and problems with speech.
In some cases, the disease can progress to involve the opposite brain hemisphere.
What are the benefits of antiviral drugs?
When used for treatment, antiviral drugs can lessen symptoms and shorten the time you are sick by 1 or 2 days.
They also can prevent serious flu complications, like pneumonia.
For people with a high risk medical condition, treatment with an antiviral drug can mean the difference between having milder illness instead of very serious illness that could result in a hospital stay.
How Are Pleurisy and Other Pleural Disorders Treated?
Pleurisy and other pleural disorders are treated with procedures, medicines, and other methods.
The goals of treatment include:
What is Schwannomatosis?
Schwannomatosis is a rare form of neurofibromatosis that is genetically and clinically distinct from NF1 and NF2.
Who Is Eligible for a Heart Transplant?
In general, patients selected for heart transplants have severe end-stage heart failure, but are healthy enough to have the transplant.
Heart failure is considered 'end stage' when all possible treatments - such as medicines, implanted devices, and surgery - have failed.
What should you expect before Carotid Endarterectomy?
Your doctor will tell you how to prepare for carotid endarterectomy CEA.
Before CEA, you may have one or more tests to examine your carotid arteries.
These tests can show whether your arteries are narrowed and how much they're narrowed.
Who is more likely to develop an inguinal hernia?
People of any age can develop inguinal hernias.
Indirect hernias can appear before age 1 and often appear before age 30; however, they may appear later in life.
Premature infants have a higher chance of developing an indirect inguinal hernia.
Direct hernias, which usually only occur in male adults, are much more common in men older than age 40 because the muscles of the abdominal wall weaken with age.
What Is Pneumonia?
Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that can cause mild to severe illness in people of all ages.
Common signs of pneumonia can include cough, fever, and difficulty breathing.
Certain people are more likely to become ill with pneumonia.
What causes these diseases?
Symptoms of Batten disease and other NCLs are linked to a buildup of substances called lipofuscins lipopigments in the body's tissues.
These lipopigments are made up of fats and proteins.
Their name comes from the technical word lipo, which is short for lipid or fat, and from the term pigment, used because they take on a greenish-yellow color when viewed under an ultraviolet light microscope.
The lipopigments build up in cells of the brain and the eye as well as in skin, muscle, and many other tissues.
The substances are found inside a part of cells called lysosomes.
Lysosomes are responsible for getting rid of things that become damaged or are no longer needed and must be cleared from inside the cell.
The accumulated lipopigments in Batten disease and the other NCLs form distinctive shapes that can be seen under an electron microscope.
Some look like half-moons, others like fingerprints.
These deposits are what doctors look for when they examine a skin sample to diagnose Batten disease.
The specific appearance of the lipopigment deposits can be useful in guiding further diagnostic tests that may identify the specific gene defect.
What is Bone marrow?
Bone marrow is the spongy tissue inside the large bones of your body.
When should a child with constipation see a health care provider?
A child should see a health care provider if symptoms of constipation last for more than 2 weeks.
A child should see a health care provider sooner if the child has constipation and one or more of the following symptoms that may indicate a more serious health problem:
What Are the Risks of Using an Automated External Defibrillator?
Automated external defibrillators AEDs are safe to use.
There are no reports of AEDs harming bystanders or users.
Also, there are no reports of AEDs delivering inappropriate shocks.
What research is being done for Transverse?
The NINDS also funds researchers who are using animal models of spinal cord injury to study strategies for replacement or regeneration of spinal cord nerve cells.
The ultimate goals of these studies are to encourage the same regeneration in humans and to restore function to paralyzed patients.
Scientists are also developing neural prostheses to help patients with spinal cord damage compensate for lost function.
These sophisticated electrical and mechanical devices connect with the nervous system to supplement or replace lost motor and sensory function.
Neural prostheses for spinal cord injured patients are being tested in humans.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Immune Thrombocytopenia?
Immune thrombocytopenia ITP may not cause any signs or symptoms.
However, ITP can cause bleeding inside the body internal bleeding or underneath or from the skin external bleeding.
Signs of bleeding may include:
What is the prognosis for Arachnoid Cysts?
Untreated, arachnoid cysts may cause permanent severe neurological damage when progressive expansion of the cysts or bleeding into the cyst injures the brain or spinal cord.
Symptoms usually resolve or improve with treatment.
What is the prognosis for Agnosia?
Agnosia can compromise quality of life.
What is Arthrodesis?
Arthrodesis is a surgical procedure that involves removing the joint and fusing the bones into one immobile unit, often using bone grafts from the person's own pelvis.
Is Shingles Contagious?
Shingles cannot be passed from one person to another.
However, a person with shingles can transmit VZV to others.
If a person who has never had chickenpox gets infected with VZV, he or she will develop chickenpox, not shingles.
What is A heart biopsy?
A heart biopsy is a standard test that can show whether your body is rejecting the new heart.
How is porphyria treated?
Treatment for porphyria depends on the type of porphyria the person has and the severity of the symptoms.
What is Tetralogy of Fallot?
Tetralogy of Fallot is a rare, complex heart defect.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Hemolytic Anemia?
People who have mild hemolytic anemia often have no signs or symptoms.
More severe hemolytic anemia may cause many signs and symptoms, and they may be serious.
What are the symptoms of peripheral nerve damage?
Sensory nerve damage causes a more complex range of symptoms because sensory nerves have a wider, more highly specialized range of functions.
Larger sensory fibers enclosed in myelin a fatty protein that coats and insulates many nerves register vibration, light touch, and position sense.
Damage to large sensory fibers lessens the ability to feel vibrations and touch, resulting in a general sense of numbness, especially in the hands and feet.
People may feel as if they are wearing gloves and stockings even when they are not.
Many patients cannot recognize by touch alone the shapes of small objects or distinguish between different shapes.
This damage to sensory fibers may contribute to the loss of reflexes as can motor nerve damage.
Loss of position sense often makes people unable to coordinate complex movements like walking or fastening buttons, or to maintain their balance when their eyes are shut.
Neuropathic pain is difficult to control and can seriously affect emotional well-being and overall quality of life.
Neuropathic pain is often worse at night, seriously disrupting sleep and adding to the emotional burden of sensory nerve damage.
Why can't some victims identify stroke symptoms?
Because stroke injures the brain, one is not able to perceive one's own problems correctly.
To a bystander, the stroke patient may seem unaware or confused.
A stroke victim's best chance is if someone around her recognizes the stroke and acts quickly.
How Is Childhood Interstitial Lung Disease Diagnosed?
Doctors diagnose childhood interstitial lung disease chILD based on a child's medical and family histories and the results from tests and procedures.
To diagnose chILD, doctors may first need to rule out other diseases as the cause of a child's symptoms.
Am I at high risk for complications from the flu?
For some people, the flu is more likely to cause serious illness that can lead to hospitalization or even death.
If you are at high risk from the flu, it's especially important to get the vaccine before flu begins to spread in your community.
What is Monoclonal antibodytherapy?
Monoclonal antibodytherapy is a type of targeted therapy that uses antibodies made in the laboratory from a single type of immune system cell.
What is Treatment Surgery?
Treatment Surgery is the treatment of choice for patients with localized melanoma.
What can a person expect after a liver biopsy?
Liver biopsy results take a few days to come back.
The liver sample goes to a pathology lab where a technician stains the tissue.
Staining highlights important details within the liver tissue and helps identify any signs of liver disease.
The pathologist - a doctor who specializes in diagnosing diseases - looks at the tissue with a microscope and sends a report to the person's health care provider.
What are the symptoms of Crohn's disease?
bleeding in the rectum, which can be seen in a person's underwear, in the toilet, or in a bowel movement; rectal bleeding can be serious and may not stop without medical help.
How Is Osteoporosis Diagnosed?
A bone mineral density test is the best way to check your bone health.
This test can:
What causes diarrhea?
Sometimes no cause can be found.
As long as diarrhea goes away within 1 to 2 days, finding the cause is not usually necessary.
What should you expect before Bronchoscopy?
You'll be given medicine before the procedure to help you relax.
The medicine will make you sleepy, so you should arrange for a ride home after the procedure.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Bronchiectasis?
The initial airway damage that leads to bronchiectasis often begins in childhood.
However, signs and symptoms may not appear until months or even years after you start having repeated lung infections.
What Special Risks do Women Face?
In the same way that the hormonal changes during pregnancy and childbirth are associated with increased risk of stroke, hormonal changes at the end of the childbearing years can increase the risk of stroke.
Several studies have shown that menopause, the end of a woman's reproductive ability marked by the termination of her menstrual cycle, can increase a woman's risk of stroke.
Fortunately, some studies have suggested that hormone replacement therapy can reduce some of the effects of menopause and decrease stroke risk.
Currently, the NINDS is sponsoring the Women's Estrogen for Stroke Trial WEST, a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial, to determine whether estrogen therapy can reduce the risk of death or recurrent stroke in postmenopausal women who have a history of a recent TIA or non-disabling stroke.
The mechanism by which estrogen can prove beneficial to postmenopausal women could include its role in cholesterol control.
Studies have shown that estrogen acts to increase levels of HDL while decreasing LDL levels.
How is SMA diagnosed in children?
A blood test is available that can indicate whether there are deletions or mutations of the SMN1 gene.
This test identifies at least 95 percent of SMA Types I, II, and III.
Other diagnostic tests may include electrodiagnosis with nerve conduction velocities EMG, and muscle biopsy.
What is Quitting smoking?
Quitting smoking is the most important step you can take to treat COPD.
What is Frontotemporal Dementia ?
Frontotemporal dementia FTD describes a clinical syndrome associated with shrinking of the frontal and temporal anterior lobes of the brain.
Originally known as Pick's disease, the name and classification of FTD has been a topic of discussion for over a century.
The current designation of the syndrome groups together Pick's disease, primary progressive aphasia, and semantic dementia as FTD.
Some doctors propose adding corticobasal degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy to FTD and calling the group Pick Complex.
These designations will continue to be debated.
As it is defined today, the symptoms of FTD fall into two clinical patterns that involve either 1 changes in behavior, or 2 problems with language.
The first type features behavior that can be either impulsive disinhibited or bored and listless apathetic and includes inappropriate social behavior; lack of social tact; lack of empathy; distractability; loss of insight into the behaviors of oneself and others; an increased interest in sex; changes in food preferences; agitation or, conversely, blunted emotions; neglect of personal hygiene; repetitive or compulsive behavior, and decreased energy and motivation.
The second type primarily features symptoms of language disturbance, including difficulty making or understanding speech, often in conjunction with the behavioral type's symptoms.
Spatial skills and memory remain intact.
There is a strong genetic component to the disease; FTD often runs in families.
Why is surgery performed?
The Carotid Revascularization Endarterectomy vs.
Stenting Trial CREST compared carotid endarterectomy surgery to carotid artery stenting and found no significance between the procedures regarding the 4-year rate of stroke or death in patients with or without a previous stroke.
The pivotal differences were the lower rate of stroke following surgery and the lower rate of heart attack following stenting.
The study also found that the age of the patient made a difference with a larger benefit for stenting, the younger the age of the patient.
At age 69 and younger, stenting results were slightly better.
Conversely, for patients older than 70, surgical benefits were slightly superior to stenting, with larger benefit for surgery, the older the patient.
What Causes Hypersensitivity Pneumonitis?
Repeatedly breathing in foreign substances can cause hypersensitivity pneumonitis HP.
Examples of these substances include molds, dusts, and chemicals.
Mold often is the cause of HP.
These substances also are known as antigens.
How Can Osteoporosis Be Prevented?
Engage in a regular regimen of weight-bearing exercises in which bones and muscles work against gravity.
This might include walking, jogging, racquet sports, climbing stairs, team sports, weight training, and using resistance machines.
A doctor should evaluate the exercise program of anyone already diagnosed with osteoporosis to determine if twisting motions and impact activities, such as those used in golf, tennis, or basketball, need to be curtailed.
How do kids get lead poisoning?
Paint in homes built before 1978 often has lead in it.
When old paint cracks and chips, it creates lead dust.
Children get lead poisoning from breathing in the dust or swallowing it from their hands and toys.
How is it diagnosed?
The comprehensive evaluation includes neurologic and genetic assessment, with in-depth cognitive and language testing to establish IQ and evaluate psychomotor function, verbal and non-verbal strengths and weaknesses, style of learning, and independent living skills.
An assessment of communication strengths and weaknesses includes evaluating non-verbal forms of communication gaze and gestures; the use of non-literal language metaphor, irony, absurdities, and humor; patterns of inflection, stress and volume modulation; pragmatics turn-taking and sensitivity to verbal cues; and the content, clarity, and coherence of conversation.
The physician will look at the testing results and combine them with the child's developmental history and current symptoms to make a diagnosis.
What is Neuromyelitis Optica ?
Historically, NMO was diagnosed in patients who experienced a rapid onset of blindness in one or both eyes, followed within days or weeks by varying degrees of paralysis in the arms and legs.
In most cases, however, the interval between optic neuritis and transverse myelitis is significantly longer, sometimes as long as several years.
After the initial attack, NMO follows an unpredictable course.
Most individuals with the syndrome experience clusters of attacks months or years apart, followed by partial recovery during periods of remission.
This relapsing form of NMO primarily affects women.
The female to male ratio is greater than 4:1.
Another form of NMO, in which an individual only has a single, severe attack extending over a month or two, is most likely a distinct disease that affects men and women with equal frequency.
The onset of NMO varies from childhood to adulthood, with two peaks, one in childhood and the other in adults in their 40s.
How do people getSalmonella infections from reptiles and amphibians?
Reptiles and amphibians might have Salmonella germs on their bodies even when they appear healthy and clean.
The germs can also get on cages, aquariums, terrariums, the water reptiles and amphibians live or swim in, and other containers that house them.
Anything that reptiles and amphibians touch should be considered possibly contaminated with Salmonella.
When you touch reptiles and amphibians, the germs can get on your hands or clothing.
It is important to wash your hands immediately after touching animals, or anything in the area where they live and roam, including water from containers or aquariums, because the germs on your hands can easily spread to other people or things.
What is Angiography?
Angiography is a dye test used to analyze the arteries or veins.
How do I stay connected?
See if there is a testing site near you to get tested for hepatitis B or C by entering in your zip code on our Hepatitis Testing Day Event page.
What is Menetrier's disease?
In a normal stomach, mucous cells in the rugae release protein-containing mucus.
The mucous cells in enlarged rugae release too much mucus, causing proteins to leak from the blood into the stomach.
This shortage of protein in the blood is known as hypoproteinemia.
Menetrier's disease also reduces the number of acid-producing cells in the stomach, which decreases stomach acid.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing.
What Causes Paget's Disease?
However, genes alone are unlikely to cause the disorder.
Though it has not been proven definitively, many doctors believe that something in the environment contributes to the development of Paget's disease in people who are genetically predisposed.
Some scientists are studying the possibility that a slow-acting virus may cause Paget's disease.
What is gastritis?
Gastritis is a condition in which the stomach lining - known as the mucosa - is inflamed.
The stomach lining contains special cells that produce acid and enzymes, which help break down food for digestion, and mucus, which protects the stomach lining from acid.
When the stomach lining is inflamed, it produces less acid, enzymes, and mucus.
How do I protect and improve well water quality?
The Private Well Class: Free Online Training for Homeowners with Water Wells.
What is chronic hepatitis B?
Hepatitis B becomes chronic when the body's immune system can't get rid of the virus.
Over time, having the virus can lead to inflammation of the liver; scar tissue in the liver, called cirrhosis; or liver cancer.
Inflammation is the painful red swelling that results when tissues of the body become infected.
Young children and people with weakened immune systems are especially at risk.
People who were infected as infants have a 90 percent chance of developing chronic hepatitis B.
How is Friedreich's ataxia diagnosed?
A diagnosis of Friedreich's ataxia requires a careful clinical examination, which includes a medical history and a thorough physical exam, in particular looking for balance difficulty, loss of proprioception joint sensation, absence of reflexes, and signs of neurological problems.
Genetic testing now provides a conclusive diagnosis.
Other tests that may aid in the diagnosis or management of the disorder include:
Will the seasonal flu vaccine protect me against a flu pandemic?
If there is a flu pandemic, it's important to get the pandemic vaccine once it's available.
It can take time to make new vaccines to protect people from a pandemic flu virus.
What is Dilated cardiomyopathy?
Dilated cardiomyopathy is the most common type of the disease.
What should I do if I think I have Chagas disease?
You should discuss your concerns with your health care provider, who will examine you and ask you questions for example, about your health and where you have lived.
Chagas disease is diagnosed by blood tests.
If you are found to have Chagas disease, you should have a heart tracing test electrocardiogram, even if you feel fine.
You might be referred to a specialist for more tests and for treatment.
How Can Vasculitis Be Prevented?
People who have severe vasculitis are treated with prescription medicines.
Rarely, surgery may be done.
People who have mild vasculitis may find relief with over-the-counter pain medicines, such as acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, or naproxen.
How can abdominal adhesions be prevented?
Laparoscopic surgery decreases the potential for abdominal adhesions because several tiny incisions are made in the lower abdomen instead of one large incision.
The surgeon inserts a laparoscope - a thin tube with a tiny video camera attached - into one of the small incisions.
The camera sends a magnified image from inside the body to a video monitor.
Patients will usually receive general anesthesia during this surgery.
What are the risk factors?
Low birthweight and premature birth.
Premature babies born less than 37 weeks into pregnancy and babies weighing less than 5 pounds at birth have a much higher risk of developing cerebral palsy than full-term, heavier weight babies.
Tiny babies born at very early gestational ages are especially at risk.
What research is being done for Autism?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
As part of the Children's Health Act of 2000, the NINDS and three sister institutes have formed the NIH Autism Coordinating Committee to expand, intensify, and coordinate NIH's autism research.
As part of the Children's Health Act of 2000, the NINDS and three sister institutes have formed the NIH Autism Coordinating Committee to expand, intensify, and coordinate NIH's autism research.
Eight dedicated research centers across the country have been established as 'Centers of Excellence in Autism Research' to bring together researchers and the resources they need.
The Centers are conducting basic and clinical research, including investigations into causes, diagnosis, early detection, prevention, and treatment of autism.
Why is it important to monitor highly pathogenic avian influenza H5N1 viruses?
HPAI H5N1 influenza viruses, like all influenza A viruses, are constantly changing.
Since they were first detected in humans in 1997, H5N1 influenza viruses have evolved into different genetic groups or 'clades.' Some genetic changes may help H5N1 viruses become more transmissible - or more capable of spreading and causing serious illness in humans and animals.
When novel influenza viruses become more transmissible in humans and there is little to no immunity to them in the human population, an influenza pandemic may occur.
Other genetic changes may cause H5N1 viruses to become resistant to antiviral drugs.
CDC and other health organizations around the world closely monitor genetic changes that could have implications for animal and public health.
What is Sickle cell anemia?
Sickle cell anemia is an inherited disease.
Is there any treatment for Meningitis and Encephalitis?
Antiviral medications may be prescribed for herpes encephalitis or other severe viral infections.
Antibiotics may be prescribed for bacterial infections.
Anticonvulsants are used to prevent or treat seizures.
Corticosteroids are used to reduce brain swelling and inflammation.
Sedatives may be needed for irritability or restlessness.
Over-the-counter medications may be used for fever and headache.
Individuals with encephalitis or bacterial meningitis are usually hospitalized for treatment.
How is cyclic vomiting syndrome treated?
Well phase treatment.
During the well phase, a health care provider may use medications to treat people whose episodes are frequent and long lasting in an effort to prevent or ease future episodes.
A person may need to take a medication daily for 1 to 2 months before evaluating whether it helps prevent episodes.
A health care provider may prescribe the following medications for both children and adults during the well phase to prevent cyclic vomiting syndrome episodes, lessen their severity, and reduce their frequency: amitriptyline Elavil.
What research is being done for Psychogenic Movement?
Scientists at NIH's National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke are investigating risk factors and neurobiological markers of psychogenic movement disorders also called functional or stress-related movement disorders.
A number of biological and psychosocial factors may act together to bring on uncontrollable movements such as twitching, jerking, twisting or weakness of certain body parts.
The study examines several genetic markers which are involved in stress and emotional disorders.
It also assesses cortisol levels and heart rate variability as a measure of stress and autonomic nervous system functioning, and detailed psychological measures.
Highly advanced brain imaging will detect changes in structures of the brain and the strength of fiber connections between certain brain areas.
Findings in patients with psychogenic movement disorders will be compared to those of healthy volunteers.
How is UC treated?
Treatment for UC depends on the severity of the disease and its symptoms.
Each person experiences UC differently, so treatment is adjusted for each individual.
How is an upper gastrointestinal series performed?
An x-ray technician and a radiologist - a doctor who specializes in medical imaging - perform an upper GI series at a hospital or an outpatient center.
A person does not need anesthesia.
The procedure usually takes about 2 hours to complete.
However, if the barium moves slowly through the small intestine, the test may take up to 5 hours to complete.
What is the prognosis for Sleep Apnea?
Untreated, sleep apnea can be life threatening.
Excessive daytime sleepiness can cause people to fall asleep at inappropriate times, such as while driving.
Sleep apnea also appears to put individuals at risk for stroke and transient ischemic attacks TIAs, also known as 'mini-strokes', and is associated with coronary heart disease, heart failure, irregular heartbeat, heart attack, and high blood pressure.
Although there is no cure for sleep apnea, recent studies show that successful treatment can reduce the risk of heart and blood pressure problems.
How Is High Blood Pressure Diagnosed?
High blood pressure HBP is diagnosed using a blood pressure test.
This test will be done several times to make sure the results are correct.
If your numbers are high, your doctor may have you return for repeat tests to check your blood pressure over time.
What Is Pulmonary Rehabilitation?
PR involves a long-term commitment from the patient and a team of health care providers.
The PR team may include doctors, nurses, and specialists.
Examples of specialists include respiratory therapists, physical and occupational therapists, dietitians or nutritionists, and psychologists or social workers.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
Who should not be vaccinated with Pneumococcal vaccine?
What is Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome?
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is a severe form of epilepsy.
Seizures usually begin before 4 years of age.
Seizure types, which vary among patients, include tonic stiffening of the body, upward deviation of the eyes, dilation of the pupils, and altered respiratory patterns, atonic brief loss of muscle tone and consciousness, causing abrupt falls, atypical absence staring spells, and myoclonic sudden muscle jerks.
There may be periods of frequent seizures mixed with brief, relatively seizure-free periods.
Most children with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome experience some degree of impaired intellectual functioning or information processing, along with developmental delays, and behavioral disturbances.
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome can be caused by brain malformations, perinatal asphyxia, severe head injury, central nervous system infection and inherited degenerative or metabolic conditions.
In 30-35 percent of cases, no cause can be found.
What should you expect after a Sleep Study?
Once the sensors are removed after a polysomnogram PSG, multiple sleep latency test, or maintenance of wakefulness test, you can go home.
If you used an actigraph or a home-based portable monitor, you'll return the equipment to a sleep center or your doctor's office.
How Can Heart Failure Be Prevented?
You can take steps to prevent heart failure.
The sooner you start, the better your chances of preventing or delaying the condition.
How Is Rheumatoid Arthritis Diagnosed?
Rheumatoid arthritis can be difficult to diagnose in its early stages for several reasons.
First, there is no single test for the disease.
In addition, symptoms differ from person to person and can be more severe in some people than in others.
Also, symptoms can be similar to those of other types of arthritis and joint conditions, and it may take some time for other conditions to be ruled out.
Finally, the full range of symptoms develops over time, and only a few symptoms may be present in the early stages.
As a result, doctors use a variety of the following tools to diagnose the disease and to rule out other conditions:
What does CDC i doing to help children with ADHD reach their full potential?
It is important to know just how many children might have ADHD, and how the estimates change over time.
Accurate data on ADHD are needed for service providers, health professionals, school systems and families.
The CDC uses national surveys that ask parents about their child's health to learn more about the:
What research is being done for Colpocephaly?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH, conduct research related to colpocephaly and other cephalic disorders in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding ways to prevent brain abnormalities such as colpocephaly.
What is A heartbeat?
A heartbeat is a complex series of events.
What is Gwen Biggerstaff?
Gwen Biggerstaff is an epidemiologist in the Outbreak Response and Prevention Branch at the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC in Atlanta.
What is High blood pressure HBP?
High blood pressure HBP is a common condition.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells.
What is Hemicrania continua?
Hemicrania continua is a chronic and persistent form of headache marked by continuous pain that varies in severity, always occurs on the same side of the face and head, and is superimposed with additional debilitating symptoms.
What are the possible symptoms?
Brain and spinal cord tumors cause many diverse symptoms, which can make detection tricky.
Symptoms depend on tumor type, location, size, and rate of growth.
Certain symptoms are quite specific because they result from damage to particular areas of the brain.
Symptoms generally develop slowly and worsen as the tumor grows.
What is The National ALS Registry?
The National ALS Registry is a ground-breaking step in the fight against ALS.
What is Bone marrow?
Bone marrow is the sponge-like tissue inside the bones.
What is Pneumonia?
Pneumonia is a serious illness that can sometimes lead to death, especially in older adults.
What is Mohs micrographic surgery?
Mohs micrographic surgery is a specialized technique used with the intent to achieve the narrowest margins necessary to avoid tumor recurrence, while maximally preserving cosmesis.
Are there treatments for SMA?
Breathing issues: Babies with SMA especially those with Type I may need help breathing, especially at night, using non-invasive methods that include negative pressure ventilators and bi-level positive airway pressure support, which direct air through the nostrils via a small, gently-fitted mask.
Children who survive their first two years are at risk for complications involving the lungs, which may not be fully developed.
A regular program of respiratory therapy and breathing exercises is helpful.
Parents should be instructed in chest physiotherapy CPT, a series of physical maneuvers that clear the lungs and airway.
What are the problems of Crohn's disease?
Ulcers from Crohn's disease can cause tunnels to form through the inflamed areas, or even the healthy parts, of the intestine.
These tunnels are called fistulas.
Fistulas are seen most often in the areas around the rectum and anus.
Sometimes a pocket of infection, called an abscess, can form in and around the fistulas.
Most fistulas can be treated with medicines, but sometimes surgery is needed.
What is Lymphatic filariasis LF?
Lymphatic filariasis LF is a disabling parasitic disease caused by worms that are spread from person-to-person by the bite of infected mosquitoes.
What Is Cardiac MRI?
A contrast agent, such as gadolinium gad-oh-LIN-e-um, might be injected into a vein during cardiac MRI.
The substance travels to the heart and highlights the heart and blood vessels on the MRI pictures.
This contrast agent often is used for people who are allergic to the dyes used in CT scanning.
What is the prognosis for Wilson Disease?
Early onset of the disease may foretell a worse prognosis than later onset.
If the disorder is detected early and treated appropriately, an individual with WD can usually enjoy normal health and a normal lifespan.
If not treated, however, WD can cause brain damage, liver failure, and death.
The disease requires lifelong treatment.
What research is being done for Dravet Syndrome?
The NINDS conducts and supports a broad program of basic and clinical research on all types of epilepsy, including Dravet syndrome.
Study of the genetic defects responsible for Dravet syndrome and related disorders is expected to lead to the development of effective drug therapies.
What is Empty Sella Syndrome?
Empty Sella Syndrome ESS is a disorder that involves the sella turcica, a bony structure at the base of the brain that surrounds and protects the pituitary gland.
ESS is a condition that is often discovered during tests for pituitary disorders, when radiological imaging of the pituitary gland reveals a sella turcica that appears to be empty.
There are two types of ESS: primary and secondary.
Primary ESS happens when a small anatomical defect above the pituitary gland increases pressure in the sella turcica and causes the gland to flatten out along the interior walls of the sella turcica cavity.
Primary ESS is associated with obesity and high blood pressure in women.
The disorder sometimes results in a build-up of fluid pressure inside the skull and the pituitary gland may be smaller than usual.
Secondary ESS is the result of the pituitary gland regressing within the cavity after an injury, surgery, or radiation therapy.
Individuals with secondary ESS due to destruction of the pituitary gland have symptoms that reflect the loss of pituitary functions, such as the ceasing of menstrual periods, infertility, fatigue, and intolerance to stress and infection.
In children, ESS may be associated with early onset of puberty, growth hormone deficiency, pituitary tumors, or pituitary gland dysfunction.
MRI scans are useful in evaluating ESS and differentiating it from other disorders that produce an enlarged sella.
Is there any treatment for Inclusion Body Myositis?
There is no cure for IBM, nor is there a standard course of treatment.
The disease is generally unresponsive to corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs.
Some evidence suggests that intravenous immunoglobulin may have a slight, but short-lasting, beneficial effect in a small number of cases.
Physical therapy may be helpful in maintaining mobility.
Other therapy is symptomatic and supportive.
Want to learn more?
This national education program is designed for parents and caregivers to help children 8-13 years old stay at a healthy weight.
The booklet Finding the Balance: A Parent Resources offers an array of easy to use practical tips and tools for parents and guardians to help their children and families eat healthy, increase physical activity, and decrease screen time.
What research is being done for Empty Sella Syndrome?
The NINDS supports and conducts studies aimed at understanding neurological conditions such as ESS.
The goal of this research is to understand what causes these disorders and to discover new ways to diagnose, treat, and prevent them.
How long is a person with flu virus contagious?
The period when an infected person is contagious depends on the age and health of the person.
Studies show that most healthy adults may be able to infect others from 1 day prior to becoming sick and for 5 days after they first develop symptoms.
Some young children with weakened immune systems may be contagious for longer than a week.
What is diarrhea?
Diarrhea of any duration may cause dehydration, which means the body lacks enough fluid and electrolytes - chemicals in salts, including sodium, potassium, and chloride - to function properly.
Loose stools contain more fluid and electrolytes and weigh more than solid stools.
What are the symptoms of intestinal pseudo-obstruction?
Over time, the condition can cause malnutrition, bacterial overgrowth in the intestines, and weight loss.
Malnutrition is a condition that develops when the body does not get the right amount of the vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients it needs to maintain healthy tissues and organ function.
How do I reduce the risk ofSalmonella infection from reptiles and amphibians?
Don't bathe animals or clean their habitats in your kitchen sink, bathroom sink, or bathtub.
To prevent cross-contamination, animals should be bathed in a small plastic tub or bin that is dedicated for animal use only.
If bathtubs must be used for these purposes, they should be thoroughly cleaned afterward.
Use bleach to disinfect a sink, bathtub, or other place where reptile or amphibian habitats are cleaned.
What causes A concussion?
A concussion is caused by a bump, blow, or jolt to the head.
How can I help research?
The NINDS contributes to the support of the Human Brain and Spinal Fluid Resource Center in Los Angeles.
This bank supplies investigators around the world with tissue from individuals with neurological and other disorders.
Tissue from individuals with NF1 or NF2 is needed to enable scientists to study these disorders more effectively.
Prospective donors may contact:
How is lactose intolerance diagnosed?
A health care provider makes a diagnosis of lactose intolerance based on.
What Are the Different Types of Growth Plate Injuries?
Since the 1960s, the Salter-Harris classification, which divides most growth plate fractures into five categories based on the type of damage, has been the standard.
The categories are as follows:
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Heart Block?
These symptoms may suggest other health problems as well.
If these symptoms are new or severe, call 9 - 1 - 1 or have someone drive you to the hospital emergency room.
If you have milder symptoms, talk with your doctor right away to find out whether you need prompt treatment.
When did CDC begin research on the 1918 virus?
CDC studies of the 1918 influenza virus were begun in 2004 with the initiation of testing of viruses containing subsets of the eight genes of the 1918 virus.
Previous articles describing the properties of such viruses were published before 2005.
Reconstruction of the entire 1918 virus was begun in August 2005.
What is Echocardiography echo?
Echocardiography echo is a test that uses sound waves to create a moving picture of your heart.
What will CDC do next?
Once we understand how much perchlorate can potentially be absorbed into infants' bodies, future studies should explore the potential health effects of exposure to perchlorate, especially low levels of perchlorate over time.
How is gastroparesis treated if a person has diabetes?
An elevated blood glucose level directly interferes with normal stomach emptying, so good blood glucose control in people with diabetes is important.
However, gastroparesis can make blood glucose control difficult.
When food that has been delayed in the stomach finally enters the small intestine and is absorbed, blood glucose levels rise.
Gastric emptying is unpredictable with gastroparesis, causing a person's blood glucose levels to be erratic and difficult to control.
Is there any treatment for Developmental Dyspraxia?
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive and may include occupational and speech therapy, and cueing or other forms of communication such as using pictures and hand gestures.
Many children with the disorder require special education.
How is a virtual colonoscopy performed?
For the test, the person will lie on a table while the radiologist inserts a thin tube through the anus and into the rectum.
The tube inflates the large intestine with air for a better view.
The table slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the radiologist takes the x ray images.
The radiologist may ask the person to hold his or her breath several times during the test to steady the images.
The radiologist will ask the person to turn over on the side or stomach so the radiologist can take different images of the large intestine.
The procedure lasts about 10 to 15 minutes.
How Are Congenital Heart Defects Treated?
Some children who have complex congenital heart defects may need several catheter or surgical procedures over a period of years, or they may need to take medicines for years.
What Are the Risk Factors for Men?
Unhealthy lifestyle habits: smoking, excessive alcohol use, low calcium intake, and inadequate physical exercise.
What research is being done for Adrenoleukodystrophy?
The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders such as ALD.
The aim of this research is to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure these disorders.
Studies are currently underway to identify new biomarkers of disease progression and to determine which patients will develop the childhood cerebral form of X-ALD.
A recent case study in Europe demonstrated that the combination of gene therapy with bone marrow transplantation, using the patient's own bone marrow cells, may arrest disease progression in childhood cerebral X-ALD.
A therapeutic trail in the United States is currently being discussed with the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration.
What is osteoporosis?
There are no signs or symptoms of osteoporosis.
You might not know you have the disease until you break a bone.
That's why it's so important to get a bone density test to measure your bone strength.
What is Troyer Syndrome?
Troyer syndrome is one of more than 40 genetically-distinct neurological disorders known collectively as the hereditary spastic paraplegias.
These disorders are characterized by their paramount feature of progressive muscle weakness and spasticity in the legs.
Additional symptoms of Troyer syndrome also called SPG20 include leg contractures, difficulty walking, speech disorders, drooling, atrophy of the hand muscles, developmental delays, fluctuating emotions, and short stature.
Onset is typically in early childhood, and symptoms gradually worsen over time.
Troyer syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder meaning that both parents must carry and pass on the defective gene that produces the illness that results from a mutation in the spastic paraplegia gene SPGP20 located in chromosome 13 that results in loss of the spartin proteins.
The disease was first observed in Amish families in Ohio.
Diagnosis is made by specialized genetic testing.
What is A healthy diet?
A healthy diet is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
What is Tethered Spinal Cord Syndrome?
Tethered spinal cord syndrome is a neurological disorder caused by tissue attachments that limit the movement of the spinal cord within the spinal column.
Attachments may occur congenitally at the base of the spinal cord conus medullaris or they may develop near the site of an injury to the spinal cord.
These attachments cause an abnormal stretching of the spinal cord.
The course of the disorder is progressive.
In children, symptoms may include lesions, hairy patches, dimples, or fatty tumors on the lower back; foot and spinal deformities; weakness in the legs; low back pain; scoliosis; and incontinence.
This type of tethered spinal cord syndrome appears to be the result of improper growth of the neural tube during fetal development, and is closely linked to spina bifida.
Tethered spinal cord syndrome may go undiagnosed until adulthood, when pain, sensory and motor problems, and loss of bowel and bladder control emerge.
This delayed presentation of symptoms is related to the degree of strain placed on the spinal cord over time and may be exacerbated during sports or pregnancy, or may be due to narrowing of the spinal column stenosis with age.
Tethering may also develop after spinal cord injury and scar tissue can block the flow of fluids around the spinal cord.
Fluid pressure may cause cysts to form in the spinal cord, a condition called syringomyelia.
This can lead to additional loss of movement, feeling or the onset of pain or autonomic symptoms.
What Is Cholesterol?
Your body needs some cholesterol to make hormones, vitamin D, and substances that help you digest foods.
Your body makes all the cholesterol it needs.
However, cholesterol also is found in some of the foods you eat.
What are Brain and Spinal Tumors?
Brain and spinal cord tumors are abnormal growths of tissue found inside the skull or the bony spinal column, which are the primary components of the central nervous system CNS.
Benign tumors are noncancerous, and malignant tumors are cancerous.
The CNS is housed within rigid, bony quarters i.e., the skull and spinal column, so any abnormal growth, whether benign or malignant, can place pressure on sensitive tissues and impair function.
Tumors that originate in the brain or spinal cord are called primary tumors.
Most primary tumors are caused by out-of-control growth among cells that surround and support neurons.
In a small number of individuals, primary tumors may result from specific genetic disease e.g., neurofibromatosis, tuberous sclerosis or from exposure to radiation or cancer-causing chemicals.
The cause of most primary tumors remains a mystery.
They are not contagious and, at this time, not preventable.
Symptoms of brain tumors include headaches, seizures, nausea and vomiting, vision or hearing problems, behavioral and cognitive problems, motor problems, and balance problems.
Spinal cord tumor symptoms include pain, sensory changes, and motor problems.
The first test to diagnose brain and spinal column tumors is a neurological examination.
Special imaging techniques computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography are also employed.
Laboratory tests include the EEG and the spinal tap.
A biopsy, a surgical procedure in which a sample of tissue is taken from a suspected tumor, helps doctors diagnose the type of tumor.
What Are the Risk Factors for Osteoporosis?
estrogen deficiency resulting from early menopause before age 45, either naturally, from surgical removal of the ovaries, or as a result of prolonged amenorrhea abnormal absence of menstruation in younger women.
Want to learn more?
By stocking up on healthier foods that contain fewer calories, you'll be making small changes that can prepare you to be a weight-loss success story!
What is Testicular cancer?
Testicular cancer is a highly treatable, usually curable, cancer that most often develops in young and middle-aged men.
What should you expect after a Chest X Ray?
In an emergency, you'll get the x-ray results right away.
Otherwise, it may take 24 hours or more.
Talk with your doctor about when you should expect the results.
What Causes Shingles?
Shingles is caused by the varicella zoster virus, or VZV.
This is the same virus that causes chickenpox.
VZV stays in your body after causing chickenpox.
If you have had chickenpox in the past, then VZV is inside you.
For reasons that are not fully known, the virus can reactivate years later and cause shingles.
What research is being done for Neuronal Migration Disorders?
The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex systems of brain development.
These studies include the identification of the mechanism of action of the known causes of NMD as well as studies to identify further causes of disease.
NIH-funded researchers work closely with parental support groups to bring research discoveries directly to patients.
The knowledge gained from these studies provides the foundation for understanding abnormal development and offers hope for new ways to treat and prevent NMDs.
What disorders are associated with TS?
Many individuals with TS experience additional neurobehavioral problems that often cause more impairment than the tics themselves.
These include inattention, hyperactivity and impulsivity attention deficit hyperactivity disorder - ADHD; problems with reading, writing, and arithmetic; and obsessive-compulsive symptoms such as intrusive thoughts/worries and repetitive behaviors.
For example, worries about dirt and germs may be associated with repetitive hand-washing, and concerns about bad things happening may be associated with ritualistic behaviors such as counting, repeating, or ordering and arranging.
People with TS have also reported problems with depression or anxiety disorders, as well as other difficulties with living, that may or may not be directly related to TS.
In addition, although most individuals with TS experience a significant decline in motor and vocal tics in late adolescence and early adulthood, the associated neurobehavioral conditions may persist.
Given the range of potential complications, people with TS are best served by receiving medical care that provides a comprehensive treatment plan.
What Is Polycythemia Vera?
Thicker blood also doesn't flow as quickly to your body as normal blood.
Slowed blood flow prevents your organs from getting enough oxygen, which can cause serious problems, such as angina an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh and heart failure.
Angina is chest pain or discomfort..
What is the prognosis for Leigh's Disease?
The prognosis for individuals with Leigh's disease is poor.
Individuals who lack mitochondrial complex IV activity and those with pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency tend to have the worst prognosis and die within a few years.
Those with partial deficiencies have a better prognosis, and may live to be 6 or 7 years of age.
Some have survived to their mid-teenage years.
What is the prognosis for Pinched Nerve?
With treatment, most people recover from pinched nerve.
However, in some cases, the damage is irreversible.
What is Utrophin?
Utrophin is a protein that is closely related to dystrophin and is not affected in the gene mutations that cause Duchenne MD.
Which Treatment Is Best for You?
Severe hemophilia - You usually need replacement therapy to prevent bleeding that could damage your joints, muscles, or other parts of your body.
Typically, replacement therapy is given at home two or three times a week.
This preventive therapy usually is started in patients at a young age and may need to continue for life.
How is lactose intolerance managed?
For people with secondary lactase deficiency, treating the underlying cause improves lactose tolerance.
In infants with developmental lactase deficiency, the ability to digest lactose improves as the infants mature.
People with primary and congenital lactase deficiency cannot change their body's ability to produce lactase.
How Is Excessive Blood Clotting Diagnosed?
If your doctor thinks that you have excessive blood clotting based on your signs and symptoms, he or she will look for the cause of the condition.
What is Opsoclonus Myoclonus?
Opsoclonus myoclonus is a rare neurological disorder characterized by an unsteady, trembling gait, myoclonus brief, shock-like muscle spasms, and opsoclonus irregular, rapid eye movements.
Other symptoms may include difficulty speaking, poorly articulated speech, or an inability to speak.
A decrease in muscle tone, lethargy, irritability, and malaise a vague feeling of bodily discomfort may also be present.
Opsoclonus myoclonus may occur in association with tumors or viral infections.
It is often seen in children with tumors.
What is the long-term outlook for those with Guillain-Barre syndrome?
Guillain-Barre syndrome can be a devastating disorder because of its sudden and unexpected onset.
In addition, recovery is not necessarily quick.
As noted above, patients usually reach the point of greatest weakness or paralysis days or weeks after the first symptoms occur.
Symptoms then stabilize at this level for a period of days, weeks, or, sometimes, months.
The recovery period may be as little as a few weeks or as long as a few years.
About 30 percent of those with Guillain-Barre still have a residual weakness after 3 years.
About 3 percent may suffer a relapse of muscle weakness and tingling sensations many years after the initial attack.
What is Constipation caused by?
Constipation is caused by stool spending too much time in your colon.
Is there any treatment for Aphasia?
In some instances, an individual will completely recover from aphasia without treatment.
In most cases, however, language therapy should begin as soon as possible and be tailored to the individual needs of the patient.
Rehabilitation with a speech pathologist involves extensive exercises in which patients read, write, follow directions, and repeat what they hear.
Computer-aided therapy may supplement standard language therapy.
What was CDC's role in responding to the 9/11 tragedies?
Consultation and support for NYC and DC health departments in numerous activities; deployment of National Pharmaceutical Stockpile NPS pushpack to NYC.
What is A genetic test?
A genetic test is the most certain way to check for AAT deficiency.
What Is Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis?
Enthesitis-related arthritis.
The enthesis is the point at which a ligament, tendon, or joint capsule attaches to the bone.
If this point becomes inflamed, it can be tender, swollen, and painful with use.
The most common locations are around the knee and at the Achilles tendon on the back of the ankle.
Patients are diagnosed with this juvenile idiopathic arthritis subtype if they have both arthritis and inflammation of an enthesitis site, or if they have either arthritis or enthesitis with at least two of the following: inflammation of the sacroiliac joints at the bottom of the back or pain and stiffness in the lumbosacral area in the lower back.
How Is Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia Diagnosed?
A chest x ray.
A chest x ray takes pictures of the structures inside the chest, such as the heart and lungs.
In severe cases of BPD, this test may show large areas of air and signs that the lungs are inflamed or infected.
A chest x ray also can detect problems such as a collapsed lung and show whether the lungs are developing normally.
How Is Osteogenesis Imperfecta Diagnosed?
Your doctor may also test your collagen from skin or genes from blood.
It may take a few weeks to learn the results of the tests.
These tests spot OI in 9 out of 10 people who have it.
What is Rheumatoid factor?
Rheumatoid factor is an antibody that is present eventually in the blood of most people with rheumatoid arthritis.
What should you expect after Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator Surgery?
For a few days to weeks after the surgery, you may have pain, swelling, or tenderness in the area where your ICD was placed.
The pain usually is mild, and over-the-counter medicines can help relieve it.
Talk to your doctor before taking any pain medicines.
What are the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas?
The pancreas is an organ that makes the hormone insulin and enzymes for digestion.
A hormone is a natural chemical produced in one part of the body and released into the blood to trigger or regulate particular functions of the body.
Insulin helps cells throughout the body remove glucose, also called sugar, from blood and use it for energy.
The pancreas is located behind the stomach and close to the duodenum.
What Is a Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant?
Another type of stem cell, called an embryonic em-bre-ON-ik stem cell, can develop into any type of cell in the body.
These cells aren't found in bone marrow.
What are Neurological Complications of AIDS?
AIDS is primarily an immune system disorder caused by the human immunodeficiency virus HIV, but it can also affect the nervous system.
HIV does not appear to directly invade nerve cells but it jeopardizes their health and function, causing symptoms such as confusion, forgetfulness, behavioral changes, headaches, progressive weakness and loss of sensation in the arms and legs, cognitive motor impairment, or damage to the peripheral nerves.
Other complications that can occur as a result of HIV infection or the drugs used to treat it include pain, seizures, shingles, spinal cord problems, lack of coordination, difficult or painful swallowing, anxiety disorder, depression, fever, vision loss, gait disorders, destruction of brain tissue, and coma.
Other AIDS-related nervous system disorders may be caused by certain cancers or by illnesses that would not otherwise affect people with healthy immune systems.
How is diarrhea treated?
Taking medicine to stop diarrhea can be helpful in some cases.
Medicines you can buy over the counter without a prescription include loperamide Imodium and bismuth subsalicylate Pepto-Bismol, Kaopectate.
Stop taking these medicines if symptoms get worse or if the diarrhea lasts more than 2 days.
If you have bloody diarrhea, you should not use over-the-counter diarrhea medicines.
These medicines may make diarrhea last longer.
The health care provider will usually prescribe antibiotics instead.
What is Status epilepticus?
Status epilepticus is a potentially life-threatening condition in which a person either has an abnormally prolonged seizure or does not fully regain consciousness between recurring seizures.
Is there any treatment for Von?
Treatment for VHL varies according to the location and size of the tumor and its associated cyst.
In general, the objective of treatment is to treat the growths when they are causing symptoms but while they are still small so that they do not cause permanent problems by putting pressure on the brain or spine, blocking the flow of cerebrospinal fluid in the nervous system, or impairing vision.
Treatment of most cases of VHL usually involves surgery to remove the tumors before they become harmful.
Certain tumors can be treated with focused high-dose irradiation.
Individuals with VHL need careful monitoring by a physician and/or medical team familiar with the disorder.
What research is being done for Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation?
The NINDS supports research on neurodegenerative movement disorders such as NBIA.
The goals of this research are to increase understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
If not prevented or if left untreated, bone loss can progress painlessly until a bone breaks, typically in the hip, spine, or wrist.
A hip fracture can limit mobility and lead to a loss of independence, and vertebral fractures can result in a loss of height, stooped posture, and chronic pain.
What are the symptoms of GERD in children and adolescents?
In older children and adolescents, the main symptom of GERD is frequent heartburn.
Most children with GERD who are younger than 12 do not have heartburn.
Other common GERD symptoms include.
What are the symptoms of gastroparesis?
Symptoms may be aggravated by eating greasy or rich foods, large quantities of foods with fiber - such as raw fruits and vegetables - or drinking beverages high in fat or carbonation.
Symptoms may be mild or severe, and they can occur frequently in some people and less often in others.
The symptoms of gastroparesis may also vary in intensity over time in the same individual.
Sometimes gastroparesis is difficult to diagnose because people experience a range of symptoms similar to those of other diseases.
Is there any treatment for Antiphospholipid Syndrome?
The main goal of treatment is to thin the blood to reduce clotting.
At present, the recommended treatment is low-dose aspirin.
For individuals who have already had a stroke or experience recurrent clots, doctors recommend treatment with the anticoagulant warfarin.
Pregnant women are treated with either aspirin or another anticoagulant -- heparin -- since warfarin can cause birth defects.
What is Heart failure?
Heart failure is a condition in which your heart can't pump enough blood to meet your body's needs.
What should you expect before Oxygen Therapy?
If the tests show that your blood oxygen level is low, your doctor may prescribe oxygen therapy.
In the prescription, your doctor will include the number of liters of oxygen per minute that you need oxygen flow rate.
He or she also will include how often you need to use the oxygen frequency of use.
Want to learn more?
Losing weight is the first step.
Once you've lost weight, you'll want to learn how to keep it off.
How is tremor diagnosed?
During a physical exam a doctor can determine whether the tremor occurs primarily during action or at rest.
The doctor will also check for tremor symmetry, any sensory loss, weakness or muscle atrophy, or decreased reflexes.
A detailed family history may indicate if the tremor is inherited.
Blood or urine tests can detect thyroid malfunction, other metabolic causes, and abnormal levels of certain chemicals that can cause tremor.
These tests may also help to identify contributing causes, such as drug interaction, chronic alcoholism, or another condition or disease.
Diagnostic imaging using computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging may help determine if the tremor is the result of a structural defect or degeneration of the brain.
What are the symptoms of transverse myelitis?
Transverse myelitis may be either acute developing over hours to several days or subacute usually developing over 1 to 4 weeks.
Initial symptoms usually include localized lower back pain, sudden paresthesias abnormal sensations such as burning, tickling, pricking, or tingling in the legs, sensory loss, and paraparesis partial paralysis of the legs.
Paraparesis may progress to paraplegia paralysis of the legs and lower part of the trunk.
Urinary bladder and bowel dysfunction is common.
Many patients also report experiencing muscle spasms, a general feeling of discomfort, headache, fever, and loss of appetite.
Depending on which segment of the spinal cord is involved, some patients may experience respiratory problems as well.
What is A concussion?
A concussion is a brain injury caused by a bump or blow to the head that can change the way your brain normally works.
How Do Doctors Diagnose Heritable Disorders of Connective Tissue?
Diagnosis always rests first on a combination of family history, medical history, and physical examination.
Because many of these conditions are uncommon, the family physician may suspect a diagnosis but be uncertain about how to confirm it.
At this point, referral to experienced clinicians, often medical geneticists, can be extremely valuable to either confirm or exclude the suspected diagnosis.
Laboratory tests are available to confirm the diagnosis for many heritable disorders of connective tissue, but not for all.
Once a diagnosis is made, laboratory studies may be available to provide some or all of the following:
What other problems can damage my new liver?
Recurrence of the disease that caused the need for a transplant can damage a new liver.
For example, the hepatitis C virus may return and damage the new liver in a patient who had hepatitis C before the transplant.
When Do Symptoms Occur?
A correct and early diagnosis of PCD is very important.
It will allow you or your child to get the proper treatment to keep your airways and lungs as healthy as possible.
An early diagnosis and proper treatment also can prevent or delay ongoing and long-term lung damage.
What is Targeted therapy?
Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells.
Should I still get a flu vaccine?
Yes.
Antiviral drugs are a second line of defense to treat the flu if you get sick.
A flu vaccine is still the first and best way to prevent influenza.
What are some common signs or symptoms?
Unlike the severe withdrawal from the rest of the world that is characteristic of autism, children with Asperger syndrome are isolated because of their poor social skills and narrow interests.
Children with the disorder will gather enormous amounts of factual information about their favorite subject and will talk incessantly about it, but the conversation may seem like a random collection of facts or statistics, with no point or conclusion.
They may approach other people, but make normal conversation difficult by eccentric behaviors or by wanting only to talk about their singular interest.
Who gets diverticulosis and diverticular disease?
Diverticulosis becomes more common as people age, particularly in people older than age 50.
Some people with diverticulosis develop diverticulitis, and the number of cases is increasing.
Although diverticular disease is generally thought to be a condition found in older adults, it is becoming more common in people younger than age 50, most of whom are male.
Can Hepatitis C be spread through sexual contact?
Yes, but the risk of transmission from sexual contact is believed to be low.
The risk increases for those who have multiple sex partners, have a sexually transmitted disease, engage in rough sex, or are infected with HIV.
More research is needed to better understand how and when Hepatitis C can be spread through sexual contact.
What is ulcerative colitis?
Normally, the large intestine absorbs water from stool and changes it from a liquid to a solid.
In UC, the inflammation causes loss of the lining of the colon, leading to bleeding, production of pus, diarrhea, and abdominal discomfort.
What is Treatment based on?
Treatment is based on the type of myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm the patient has.
What causes Wilson disease?
Wilson disease is caused by an inherited autosomal recessive mutation, or change, in the ATP7B gene.
In an autosomal recessive disease, the child has to inherit the gene mutation from both parents to have an increased likelihood for the disease.
The chance of a child inheriting autosomal recessive mutations from both parents with a gene mutation is 25 percent, or one in four.
If only one parent carries the mutated gene, the child will not get the disease, although the child may inherit one copy of the gene mutation.
The child is called a 'carrier' of the disease and can pass the gene mutation to the next generation.
Genetic testing is a procedure that identifies changes in a patient's genes and can show whether a parent or child is a carrier of a mutated gene.
Autosomal recessive diseases are typically not seen in every generation of an affected family.
What do the numbers tell us?
Across the United States, the average level of support that birth facilities provide to mothers and babies as they get started with breastfeeding is inadequate, and hospital practices and policies that interfere with breastfeeding remain common.
In the United States, too few hospitals participate in the global program to recognize best practices in supporting breastfeeding mothers and babies, known as the Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative.
How Can Heart Valve Disease Be Prevented?
Let your doctors and dentists know if you have a man-made valve or if you've had IE before.
They may give you antibiotics before dental procedures such as dental cleanings that could allow bacteria to enter your bloodstream.
Talk to your doctor about whether you need to take antibiotics before such procedures.
What's the problem?
In the next 24 hours, on average, more than 460 people will be treated in an emergency department for traffic-related pedestrian injuries.
In the next 2 hours, on average, one pedestrian will die from injuries in a traffic crash.
What is Inclusion Body Myositis?
Inclusion body myositis IBM is one of a group of muscle diseases known as the inflammatory myopathies, which are characterized by chronic, progressive muscle inflammation accompanied by muscle weakness.
The onset of muscle weakness in IBM is generally gradual over months or years and affects both proximal close to the trunk of the body and distal further away from the trunk muscles.
Muscle weakness may affect only one side of the body.
Falling and tripping are usually the first noticeable symptoms of IBM.
For some individuals, the disorder begins with weakness in the wrists and fingers that causes difficulty with pinching, buttoning, and gripping objects.
There may be weakness of the wrist and finger muscles and atrophy thinning or loss of muscle bulk of the forearm muscles and quadricep muscles in the legs.
Difficulty swallowing occurs in approximately half of IBM cases.
Symptoms of the disease usually begin after the age of 50, although the disease can occur earlier.
IBM occurs more frequently in men than in women.
Who Is at Risk for Patent Ductus Arteriosus?
Patent ductus arteriosus PDA is a fairly common congenital heart defect in the United States.
Although the condition can affect full-term infants, it's more common in premature infants.
What is Brown-Sequard syndrome BSS?
Brown-Sequard syndrome BSS is a rare neurological condition characterized by a lesion in the spinal cord which results in weakness or paralysis hemiparaplegia on one side of the body and a loss of sensation hemianesthesia on the opposite side.
What is Dabrafenib Dabrafenib?
Dabrafenib Dabrafenib is an orally available, small molecule, selective BRAF inhibitor that was approved by the FDA in 2013 for patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma who test positive for the BRAF V600E mutation as detected by an FDA-approved test.
My landlord or builder will not take any responsibility for cleaning up the mold in my home.
Where can I go for help?
If you feel your property owner, landlord, or builder has not been responsive to concerns you've expressed regarding mold exposure, you can contact your local board of health or housing authority.
Applicable codes, insurance, inspection, legal, and similar issues about mold generally fall under state and local not federal jurisdiction.
You could also review your lease or building contract and contact local or state government authorities, your insurance company, or an attorney to learn more about local codes and regulations and your legal rights.
CDC does not have enforcement power in such matters, nor can we provide you with advice.
You can contact your county or state health department about mold issues in your area to learn about what mold assessment and remediation services they may offer.
You can find information on your state's Indoor Air Quality program at http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/airpollution/indoor_air.htm.
How Can I Prevent Falling?
Stand on one leg at a time for a minute and then slowly increase the time.
Try to balance with your eyes closed or without holding on.
What is Not smoking?
Not smoking is an important part of a heart healthy lifestyle.
Why Are Car Crashes a Risk for Travelers?
More and more people are driving cars and riding motorcycles in developing countries, and these countries are an increasingly common destination for US tourists.
Roads in these countries may be poorly maintained, and traffic laws may be haphazardly followed or enforced.
A crash in a developing country is more likely to be fatal because emergency care may not be readily available.
It may take a long time to get to a center that can provide appropriate care, and care, where available, may not be up to US standards.
How can you and your loved ones safeguard against surgical site infections?
Follow your doctor's instructions for cleaning your skin before your surgery.
For example, if your doctor recommends using a special soap before surgery, make sure you do so.
What is CDC doing?
CDC's Division of Human Development and Disability at the National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities is working to prevent health problems in people with disabilities.
By improving access to mainstream health programs and health care services such as mammography screenings, people with disabilities can live full productive lives and reduce individual and health system costs.
What is the outlook for those with Rett syndrome?
Despite the difficulties with symptoms, many individuals with Rett syndrome continue to live well into middle age and beyond.
Because the disorder is rare, very little is known about long-term prognosis and life expectancy.
While there are women in their 40s and 50s with the disorder, currently it is not possible to make reliable estimates about life expectancy beyond age 40.
What is Folic acid?
Folic acid is a B vitamin.
What is Seasickness?
Seasickness is a common complaint of cruise ship passengers.
What is Obinutuzumab Obinutuzumab?
Obinutuzumab Obinutuzumab is an alternative CD20-binding monoclonal antibody with alternative epitope binding and is being studied in patients with recurrent follicular lymphoma.
How Can Concussions Happen in Schools?
Children and adolescents are among those at greatest risk for concussion.
Concussions can result from a fall, or any time a student's head comes into contact with a hard object, such as a floor, desk, or another student's head or body.
The potential for a concussion is greatest during activities where collisions can occur, such as during physical education PE class, playground time, or school-based sports activities.
What do blood pressure numbers mean?
Blood pressure is measured with 2 numbers.
The first number is the pressure in your arteries when your heart beats.
The second number is the pressure in your arteries between each beat, when your heart relaxes.
What is Sandhoff disease?
Sandhoff disease is a rare, genetic, lipid storage disorder resulting in the progressive deterioration of the central nervous system.
What is Concept mapping?
Concept mapping is a tool to assist in strategic planning that allows planners to work through a sequence of phases to produce a conceptual framework.
What is Irritable bowel syndrome?
Irritable bowel syndrome is a functional gastrointestinal GI disorder, meaning symptoms are caused by changes in how the GI tract works.
What is Asperger syndrome AS?
Asperger syndrome AS is an autism spectrum disorder ASD, one of a distinct group of complex neurodevelopment disorders characterized by social impairment, communication difficulties, and restrictive, repetitive, and stereotyped patterns of behavior.
What is Lennox-Gastaut syndrome?
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is a severe form of epilepsy.
What is Sexual development?
Sexual development is a normal part of the teen years.
How are liver donors and potential recipients matched?
Livers for transplantation are identified and allocated through policies developed by the OPTN.
The UNOS maintains a centralized computer network that links all organ procurement organizations and transplant centers in the United States.
Livers are allocated to specific recipients based on the status 1 and MELD and PELD scoring systems, which give priority to people with the most urgent need for a new liver.
Donors and recipients are matched on the basis of having compatible blood types and ideally should be similar in size.
Can cerebral palsy be prevented?
Cerebral palsy related to genetic abnormalities cannot be prevented, but a few of the risk factors for congenital cerebral palsy can be managed or avoided.
For example, rubella, or German measles, is preventable if women are vaccinated against the disease before becoming pregnant.
Rh incompatibilities can also be managed early in pregnancy.
Acquired cerebral palsy, often due to head injury, is often preventable using common safety tactics, such as using car seats for infants and toddlers.
What is the prognosis for Lipoid Proteinosis?
Lipoid proteinosis has a stable or slowly progressive course.
Children with LP may have behavioral or learning difficulties, along with seizures.
Obstruction in the throat may require a tracheostomy.
Mortality rates in infants and adults are slightly increased because of problems with throat obstructions and upper respiratory tract infections.
What if I've used drugs in the past?
Be honest with your child, but don't give a lot of details.
Use these tips to talk about your past drug use.
How Can Carotid Artery Disease Be Prevented?
A healthy diet includes a variety of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
It also includes lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, and fat-free or low-fat milk or milk products.
A healthy diet is low in saturated fat, trans fat, cholesterol, sodium salt, and added sugar.
When Is Use of Rapid Diagnostic Tests Beneficial?
Otherwise, rapid tests do not address the public health need for influenza virus isolated that can only be obtained through the collection of specimens for viral culture.
Influenza virus isolates are essential for determining the match between circulating influenza viruses and those viruses contained in the vaccine and for aiding in the selection of new vaccine strains.
How is A sharp curette used?
A sharp curette is used to scrape away the tumor down to its base, followed by electrodesiccation of the lesion base.
Q.
Can people get influenza from eating pork?
A.
Flu viruses in pigs have not been shown to be transmissible to people through eating properly handled and prepared pork pig meat or other products derived from pigs.
For more information about the proper handling and preparation of pork, visit the USDA website fact sheet Fresh Pork from Farm to Table.
What is Adrenoleukodystrophy?
X-linked Adrenoleukodystrophy ALD is one of a group of genetic disorders called the leukodystrophies that cause damage to the myelin sheath, an insulating membrane that surrounds nerve cells in the brain.
Women have two X chromosomes and are the carriers of the disease, but since men only have one X chromosome and lack the protective effect of the extra X chromosome, they are more severely affected.
People with X-ALD accumulate high levels of saturated, very long chain fatty acids VLCFA in the brain and adrenal cortex.
The loss of myelin and the progressive dysfunction of the adrenal gland are the primary characteristics of X-ALD.
While nearly all patients with X-ALD suffer from adrenal insufficiency, also known as Addison's disease, the neurological symptoms can begin either in childhood or in adulthood.
The childhood cerebral form is the most severe, with onset between ages 4 and 10.
The most common symptoms are usually behavioral changes such as abnormal withdrawal or aggression, poor memory, and poor school performance.
Other symptoms include visual loss, learning disabilities, seizures, poorly articulated speech, difficulty swallowing, deafness, disturbances of gait and coordination, fatigue, intermittent vomiting, increased skin pigmentation, and progressive dementia.
The milder adult-onset form is also known as adrenomyeloneuropathy AMN, which typically begins between ages 21 and 35.
Symptoms may include progressive stiffness, weakness or paralysis of the lower limbs, and ataxia.
Although adult-onset ALD progresses more slowly than the classic childhood form, it can also result in deterioration of brain function.
Almost half the women who are carriers of X-ALS will develop a milder form of AMN but almost never will develop symptoms seen in boys the X-ALD.
X-ALD should not be confused with neonatal adrenoleukodsystrophy, which is a disease of newborns and young infants and belongs to the group of peroxisomal biogenesis disorders.
What is Crohn's disease?
Crohn's disease is an inflammatory bowel disease that causes irritation in the GI tract.
How is NF2 treated?
NF2 is best managed at a specialty clinic with an initial screening and annual follow-up evaluations more frequent if the disease is severe.
Improved diagnostic technologies, such as magnetic resonance imaging MRI, can reveal tumors of the vestibular nerve as small as a few millimeters in diameter.
Vestibular schwannomas grow slowly, but they can grow large enough to engulf one of the eighth cranial nerves and cause brain stem compression and damage to surrounding cranial nerves.
Surgical options depend on tumor size and the extent of hearing loss.
There is no general agreement among doctors about when surgery should be performed or which surgical option is best.
Individuals considering surgery should carefully weigh the risks and benefits of all options to determine which treatment is right for them.
Surgery to remove the entire tumor while it's still small might help preserve hearing.
If hearing is lost during this surgery, but the auditory nerve is maintained, the surgical placement of a cochlear implant a device placed in the inner ear, or cochlea, that processes electronic signals from sound waves to the auditory nerve may be an option to improve hearing.
As tumors grow larger, it becomes harder to surgically preserve hearing and the auditory nerve.
The development of the penetrating auditory brain stem implant a device that stimulates the hearing portions of the brain can restore some hearing in individuals who have completely lost hearing and do not have an auditory nerve present.
Surgery for other tumors associated with NF2 is aimed at controlling or relieving symptoms.
Surgery also can correct cataracts and retinal abnormalities.
How Can I Help Research?
The NINDS and the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention/ Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry CDC/ATSDR are committed to studies of disease patterns or risk factors among persons with ALS in order to better understand the causes of ALS, the mechanisms involved in the progression of the disease, and to develop effective treatments.
The National ALS Registry, a program to collect, manage, and analyze data about persons with ALS, was launched in October 2010 and is actively enrolling individuals with the disease.
The Registry includes data from national databases as well as de-identified information provided by persons with ALS.
All collected information is kept confidential.
Persons living with ALS who choose to participate can add their information to the Registry by visiting www.cdc.gov/als.
What can I do to keep cirrhosis from getting worse?
talk with your doctor before taking any medicines, including those you can buy over the counter such as vitamins and herbal supplements.
Cirrhosis makes your liver sensitive to certain medicines.
Where Else Can I Go for Help?
For more information on osteoporosis and bone health, contact any of the following organizations:
Is there any treatment for Central Pontine Myelinolysis?
The ideal treatment for myelinolysis is to prevent the disorder by identifying individuals at risk and following careful guidelines for evaluation and correction of hyponatremia.
These guidelines aim to safely restore the serum sodium level, while protecting the brain.
For those who have hyponatremia for at least 2 days, or for whom the duration is not known, the rate of rise in the serum sodium concentration should be kept below 10 mmol/L during any 24-hour period, if possible.
Why is a lower gastrointestinal series performed?
a fistula - an abnormal passage, or tunnel, between two organs, called an internal fistula, or between an organ and the outside of the body, called an external fistula.
Fistulas occur most often in the areas around the rectum and anus.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is the most common test for detecting asbestos-related lung diseases.
What Causes Anemia?
For some people, the condition is caused by more than one of these factors.
Going trick-or-treating?
Enter homes only if you're with a trusted adult.
Only visit well-lit houses.
Don't stop at dark houses.
Never accept rides from strangers.
What is Ovarian Cancer Ovarian cancer?
Ovarian Cancer Ovarian cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the ovary.
How do molds get in the indoor environment and how do they grow?
When mold spores drop on places where there is excessive moisture, such as where leakage may have occurred in roofs, pipes, walls, plant pots, or where there has been flooding, they will grow.
Many building materials provide suitable nutrients that encourage mold to grow.
Wet cellulose materials, including paper and paper products, cardboard, ceiling tiles, wood, and wood products, are particularly conducive for the growth of some molds.
Other materials such as dust, paints, wallpaper, insulation materials, drywall, carpet, fabric, and upholstery, commonly support mold growth.
What should you expect during Heart Surgery?
Heart surgery is done in a hospital, and a team of experts is involved.
Cardiothoracic surgeons perform the surgery with other doctors and nurses who help.
What is Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis?
Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis SSPE is a progressive neurological disorder of children and young adults that affects the central nervous system CNS.
It is a slow, but persistent, viral infection caused by defective measles virus.
SSPE has been reported from all parts of the world, but it is considered a rare disease in developed countries, with fewer than 10 cases per year reported in the United States.
The incidence of SSPE declined by at least 90 percent in countries that have practiced widespread immunization with measles vaccine.
The incidence of SSPE is still high in developing countries such as India and Eastern Europe.
There is a higher incidence among males than females male/female: 3/1.
Most youngsters with SSPE have a history of measles infection at an early age, usually younger than 2 years, followed by a latent period of 6 to 8 years before neurological symptoms begin.
Despite the long interval between the measles infection and the onset of SSPE, researchers think that the infection of the brain occurs soon after the primary bout with measles and progresses slowly.
Why it persists and progresses still isn't clear.
The initial symptoms of SSPE are subtle and include mild mental deterioration such as memory loss and changes in behavior such as irritability followed by disturbances in motor function, including uncontrollable involuntary jerking movements of the head, trunk or limbs called myoclonic jerks.
Seizures may also occur.
Some people may become blind.
In advanced stages of the disease, individuals may lose the ability to walk, as their muscles stiffen or spasm.
There is progressive deterioration to a comatose state, and then to a persistent vegetative state.
Death is usually the result of fever, heart failure, or the brain's inability to continue controlling the autonomic nervous system.
What should you expect during a Lung Ventilation/Perfusion Scan?
For the test, you lie on a table for about 1 hour and have two types of scans: ventilation and perfusion.
The ventilation scan shows the pattern of air flow in your lungs.
The perfusion scan shows the pattern of blood flow in your lungs.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
How is viral gastroenteritis diagnosed?
Viral gastroenteritis is usually diagnosed based on symptoms alone.
People who have symptoms that are severe or last for more than a few days may want to see a health care provider for additional tests.
A health care provider may ask for a stool sample to test for rotavirus or norovirus or to rule out bacteria or parasites as the cause of the gastroenteritis.
What is the prognosis for Hydrocephalus?
The prognosis for individuals diagnosed with hydrocephalus is difficult to predict, although there is some correlation between the specific cause of hydrocephalus and the patient's outcome.
Prognosis is further complicated by the presence of associated disorders, the timeliness of diagnosis, and the success of treatment.
The symptoms of normal pressure hydrocephalus usually get worse over time if the condition is not treated, although some people may experience temporary improvements.
If left untreated, progressive hydrocephalus is fatal, with rare exceptions.
The parents of children with hydrocephalus should be aware that hydrocephalus poses risks to both cognitive and physical development.
Treatment by an interdisciplinary team of medical professionals, rehabilitation specialists, and educational experts is critical to a positive outcome.
Many children diagnosed with the disorder benefit from rehabilitation therapies and educational interventions, and go on to lead normal lives with few limitations.
How can you tell the difference between a cold and the flu?
Because colds and flu share many symptoms, it can be difficult or even impossible to tell the difference between them based on symptoms alone.
Special tests that usually must be done within the first few days of illness can be carried out, when needed to tell if a person has the flu.
How Are Pleurisy and Other Pleural Disorders Diagnosed?
Your doctor will want to rule out other causes of your symptoms.
He or she also will want to find the underlying cause of the pleurisy or other pleural disorder so it can be treated.
What is Narcolepsy?
Narcolepsy is a chronic neurological disorder caused by the brain's inability to regulate sleep-wake cycles normally.
What is the prognosis for Benign Essential Blepharospasm?
With botulinum toxin treatment most individuals with BEB have substantial relief of symptoms.
Although some may experience side effects such as drooping eyelids, blurred or double vision, and eye dryness, these side effects are usually only temporary.
The condition may worsen or expand to surrounding muscles; remain the same for many years; and, in rare cases, improve spontaneously.
Is there any treatment for Alzheimer's Disease?
Currently there are no medicines that can slow the progression of AD.
However, four FDA-approved medications are used to treat AD symptoms.
These drugs help individuals carry out the activities of daily living by maintaining thinking, memory, or speaking skills.
They can also help with some of the behavioral and personality changes associated with AD.
However, they will not stop or reverse AD and appear to help individuals for only a few months to a few years.
Donepezil Aricept, rivastigmine Exelon, and galantamine Razadyne are prescribed to treat mild to moderate AD symptoms.
Donepezil was recently approved to treat severe AD as well.
The newest AD medication is memantine Namenda, which is prescribed to treat moderate to severe AD symptoms.
What are the complications of diverticulitis and how are they treated?
These complications need to be treated to prevent them from getting worse and causing serious illness.
In some cases, surgery may be needed.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis often can be prevented.
It is known as a 'silent disease' because, if undetected, bone loss can progress for many years without symptoms until a fracture occurs.
Osteoporosis has been called a childhood disease with old age consequences because building healthy bones in youth helps prevent osteoporosis and fractures later in life.
However, it is never too late to adopt new habits for healthy bones.
How common is acute Hepatitis C in the United States?
In 2009, there were an estimated 16,000 acute Hepatitis C virus infections reported in the United States.
What About Bracing?
Braces must be selected for the specific curve problem and fitted to each patient.
To have their intended effect to keep a curve from getting worse, braces must be worn every day for the full number of hours prescribed by the doctor until the child stops growing.
Do I Need to See a Special Doctor? What Kinds of Doctors Specialize in This Disease?
The doctor who diagnosed your Paget's disease may be a specialist in the disease.
If not, he or she can refer you to someone who is.
Doctors who are the most experienced in treating patients with Paget's disease are:
Who Is at Risk for Fanconi Anemia?
Ashkenazi Jews are people who are descended from the Jewish population of Eastern Europe.
Afrikaners are White natives of South Africa who speak a language called Afrikaans.
This ethnic group is descended from early Dutch, French, and German settlers.
What is Moyamoya Disease?
Moyamoya disease is a rare, progressive cerebrovascular disorder caused by blocked arteries at the base of the brain in an area called the basal ganglia.
The name 'moyamoya' means 'puff of smoke' in Japanese and describes the look of the tangle of tiny vessels formed to compensate for the blockage.
Moyamoya disease was first described in Japan in the 1960's and it has since been found in individuals in the United States , Europe , Australia , and Africa .
The disease primarily affects children, but it can also occur in adults.
In children, the first symptom of Moyamoya disease is often stroke, or recurrent transient ischemic attacks TIA, commonly referred to as 'mini-strokes', frequently accompanied by muscular weakness or paralysis affecting one side of the body, or seizures.
Adults most often experience a hemorrhagic stroke due to recurring blood clots in the affected brain vessels.
Individuals with this disorder may have disturbed consciousness, speech deficits usually aphasia, sensory and cognitive impairments, involuntary movements, and vision problems.
Because it tends to run in families, researchers think that Moyamoya disease is the result of inherited genetic abnormalities.
Studies that look for the abnormal genes may help reveal the biomechanisms that cause the disorder.
Q: How many types of HPV are there?
A: There are more than 40 HPV types that can infect the genital areas of males and females.
These HPV types can also infect the mouth and throat.
Most people who become infected with HPV do not know they have it.
What is Mohs micrographic surgery?
Mohs micrographic surgery is a specialized technique used to achieve the narrowest margins necessary to avoid tumor recurrence, while maximally preserving cosmesis.
How is Machado-Joseph Disease diagnosed?
Physicians diagnose MJD by recognizing the symptoms of the disease and by taking a family history.
They ask detailed questions about family members who show or showed symptoms of the disease, the kinds of symptoms seen in these relatives, the ages of disease onset, and the progression and severity of symptoms.
A definitive diagnosis of MJD can be made only with a genetic test.
The genetic test for MJD SCA3 is highly accurate.
Those individuals who are at risk for MJD i.e.
have an affected parent but do not have any symptoms can undergo presymptomatic testing to determine whether they carry the disease allele and thus will later develop the disease.
Obtaining presymptomatic testing is a highly personal decision that at-risk individuals should make only after fully considering the potential pros and cons.
Many at-risk persons choose not to undergo this test out of concern for job discrimination and difficulty in obtaining or maintaining insurance, among other reasons.
For more information on genetic testing and counseling, please consult the organizations listed in the section titled 'Where can I get more information?'.
Who Is at Risk for Thalassemias?
Family history and ancestry are the two risk factors for thalassemias.
Am I at risk for eye disease?
You may be at higher risk for eye disease if you:
How is iron deficiency detected?
Your doctor or healthcare provider will do blood tests to screen for iron deficiency.
No single test is used to diagnose iron deficiency.
The most common tests for screening are.
What is Pneumonia?
Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that can cause mild to severe illness in people of all ages.
How Is Asthma Diagnosed?
Your doctor also will figure out the severity of your asthma - that is, whether it's intermittent, mild, moderate, or severe.
The treatment your doctor prescribes will depend on the level of severity.
What else is important to know about the intradermal vaccine?
The intradermal flu vaccine uses a very fine needle that is 90% smaller than the needles used for regular flu shots.
This may be helpful for people who don't like needles.
Another feature of the intradermal vaccine is that it requires 40% less antigen than the regular flu shot.
This is useful because the same amount of available antigen can be used to make more doses of the vaccine.
What should you expect before Cardiac Catheterization?
Whether you have any conditions such as diabetes or kidney disease that may require taking extra steps during or after the procedure to avoid problems.
What Is an Electrocardiogram?
An electrocardiogram e-lek-tro-KAR-de-o-gram, also called an EKG or ECG, is a simple, painless test that records the heart's electrical activity.
To understand this test, it helps to understand how the heart works.
How Is Heart Valve Disease Treated?
Currently, no medicines can cure heart valve disease.
However, lifestyle changes and medicines often can successfully treat symptoms and delay problems for many years.
Eventually, though, you may need surgery to repair or replace a faulty heart valve.
How Can Coronary Heart Disease Be Prevented or Delayed?
A healthy diet includes a variety of vegetables and fruits.
It also includes whole grains, fat-free or low-fat dairy products, and protein foods, such as lean meats, poultry without skin, seafood, processed soy products, nuts, seeds, and beans and peas.
How Is Respiratory Failure Treated?
Acute respiratory failure can be a medical emergency.
It often is treated in an intensive care unit at a hospital.
Chronic respiratory failure often can be treated at home.
If chronic respiratory failure is severe, your doctor may recommend treatment in a long-term care center.
How is autoimmune hepatitis diagnosed?
A health care provider performs a physical exam and reviews the person's health history, including the use of alcohol and medications that can harm the liver.
A person usually needs blood tests for an exact diagnosis because a person with autoimmune hepatitis can have the same symptoms as those of other liver diseases or metabolic disorders.
Will I be able to get the medicines I need?
Make a list of the medicines you take or might need when you are traveling.
Include prescription and over-the-counter medicines.
What is the prognosis for Neuroacanthocytosis?
Neuroacanthocytosis is a progressive disease, and in some cases may be complicated by poor nutritional status, cardiac abnormalities, and pneumonia.
Is my child at risk for tooth decay?
Eating and drinking lots of sugary foods and drinks puts your child at higher risk for tooth decay.
But good tooth care can prevent tooth decay.
What are Neurological Sequelae Of Lupus?
Lupus also called systemic lupus erythematosus is a disorder of the immune system.
Normally, the immune system protects the body against invading infections and cancers.
In lupus, the immune system is over-active and produces increased amounts of abnormal antibodies that attack the body's tissues and organs.
Lupus can affect many parts of the body, including the joints, skin, kidneys, lungs, heart, nervous system, and blood vessels.
The signs and symptoms of lupus differ from person to person; the disease can range from mild to life threatening.
What is ANENCEPHALY?
ANENCEPHALY is a neural tube defect that occurs when the cephalic head end of the neural tube fails to close, usually between the 23rd and 26th days of pregnancy, resulting in the absence of a major portion of the brain, skull, and scalp.
What research is being done on the neurofibromatoses?
In the mid-1990s, research supported by the NINDS located the exact position of the NF1 gene on chromosome 17.
The gene has been cloned and its structure continues to be analyzed.
The NF1 gene makes a large and complex protein called neurofibromin, which is primarily active in nervous system cells as a regulator of cell division and functions as a kind of molecular brake to keep cells from over-multiplying.
In addition to work on NF1, intensive efforts have led to the identification of the NF2 gene on chromosome 22.
As in NF1, the NF2 gene product is a tumor-suppressor protein called merlin or schwannomin.
What is Farber's Disease?
Farber's disease describes a group of inherited metabolic disorders called lipid storage diseases, in which excess amounts of lipids oils, fatty acids, and related compounds build up to harmful levels in the joints, tissues, and central nervous system.
The liver, heart, and kidneys may also be affected.
Symptoms are typically seen in the first few weeks of life and include impaired motor and mental ability and difficulty with swallowing.
Other symptoms may include arthritis, swollen lymph nodes and joints, hoarseness, nodules under the skin and sometimes in the lungs and other parts of the body, chronic shortening of muscles or tendons around joints, and vomiting.
Affected persons may require the insertion of a breathing tube.
In severe cases, the liver and spleen are enlarged.
Farber's disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme ceramidase.
The disease occurs when both parents carry and pass on the defective gene that regulates the protein sphingomyelin.
Children born to these parents have a 25 percent chance of inheriting the disorder and a 50 percent chance of carrying the faulty gene.
The disorder affects both males and females.
What is Megalencephaly?
Megalencephaly, also called macrencephaly, is a condition in which an infant or child has an abnormally large, heavy, and usually malfunctioning brain.
By definition, the brain weight is greater than average for the age and gender of the child.
Head enlargement may be evident at birth or the head may become abnormally large in the early years of life.
Megalencephaly is thought to be related to a disturbance in the regulation of cell production in the brain.
In normal development, neuron proliferation - the process in which nerve cells divide to form new generations of cells - is regulated so that the correct number of cells is produced in the proper place at the appropriate time.
In a megalencephalic brain, too many cells are produced either during development or progressively as part of another disorder, such as one of the neurofibromatoses or leukodystrophies.
Symptoms of megalencephaly include delayed development, seizures, and corticospinal brain cortex and spinal cord dysfunction.
Megalencephaly affects males more often than females.
Unilateral megalencephaly or hemimegalencephaly is a rare condition that is characterized by the enlargement of one side of the brain.
Children with this disorder may have a large, asymmetrical head accompanied by seizures, partial paralysis, and mental retardation.
Megalencephaly is different from macrocephaly also called megacephaly or megalocephaly, which describes a big head, and which doesn't necessarily indicate abnormality.
Large head size is passed down through the generations in some families.
Who gets myasthenia gravis?
Rarely, children may show signs of congenital myasthenia or congenital myasthenic syndrome.
These are not autoimmune disorders, but are caused by defective genes that produce abnormal proteins instead of those which normally would produce acetylcholine, acetylcholinesterase the enzyme that breaks down acetylcholine, or the acetylcholine receptor and other proteins present along the muscle membrane.
What is Chagas disease?
The impact of Chagas disease is not limited to the rural areas in Latin America in which vectorborne transmission occurs.
Large-scale population movements from rural to urban areas of Latin America and to other regions of the world have increased the geographic distribution and changed the epidemiology of Chagas disease.
In the United States and in other regions where Chagas disease is now found but is not endemic, control strategies should focus on preventing transmission from blood transfusion, organ transplantation, and mother-to-baby congenital transmission.
What is Short bowel syndrome?
Short bowel syndrome is a group of problems related to inadequate absorption of nutrients after removal of part of the small intestine.
What does the CDC FoodCORE team do?
Find and promote opportunities for collaborations between FoodCORE centers and other public health programs, such as PulseNet, FoodNet, the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration's Rapid Response Teams FDA-RRTs, and the Environmental Health Specialists Network EHS-Net.
What is Bell's palsy?
Bell's palsy is a form of temporary facial paralysis resulting from damage or trauma to one of the facial nerves.
What is the prognosis for Kennedy's Disease?
Kennedy's disease is slowly progressive.
Individuals tend to remain ambulatory until late in the disease, although some may be wheelchair-bound during later stages.
The life span of individuals with Kennedy's disease is usually normal.
What if I have osteoporosis?
If you have osteoporosis, you can still help slow down bone loss.
Finding and treating it early can keep you healthier and more active, and can lower your chances of breaking a bone.
What are the symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome?
Symptoms usually start gradually, with frequent burning, tingling, or itching numbness in the palm of the hand and the fingers, especially the thumb and the index and middle fingers.
Some carpal tunnel sufferers say their fingers feel useless and swollen, even though little or no swelling is apparent.
The symptoms often first appear in one or both hands during the night, since many people sleep with flexed wrists.
A person with carpal tunnel syndrome may wake up feeling the need to shake out the hand or wrist.
As symptoms worsen, people might feel tingling during the day.
Decreased grip strength may make it difficult to form a fist, grasp small objects, or perform other manual tasks.
In chronic and/or untreated cases, the muscles at the base of the thumb may waste away.
Some people are unable to tell between hot and cold by touch.
What research is being done for Parkinson's Disease?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts PD research in laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Current research programs funded by the NINDS are using animal models to study how the disease progresses and to develop new drug therapies.
Scientists looking for the cause of PD continue to search for possible environmental factors, such as toxins, that may trigger the disorder, and study genetic factors to determine how defective genes play a role.
Other scientists are working to develop new protective drugs that can delay, prevent, or reverse the disease.
Is there any treatment for Stiff-Person Syndrome?
People with SPS respond to high doses of diazepam and several anti-convulsants, gabapentin and tiagabine.
A recent study funded by the NINDS demonstrated the effectiveness of intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg treatment in reducing stiffness and lowering sensitivity to noise, touch, and stress in people with SPS.
What is Rotavirus?
Rotavirus is the leading cause of severe acute gastroenteritis vomiting and severe diarrhea among children worldwide.
What Kind of Research Is Being Done?
One major focus of research in recent years has been on the relative efficacy and cost effectiveness of surgical versus nonsurgical treatment of conditions associated with low back and leg pain.
A multi-year multicenter study called the Spine Patient Outcomes Research Trial SPORT compared the most commonly used standard surgical and nonsurgical treatments for patients with the three most common diagnoses for which spine surgery is performed: intervertebral disk herniation, spinal stenosis, and degenerative spondylisthesis.
Key findings included the following:
What is an exacerbation or attack of MS?
When the symptoms of the attack subside, an individual with MS is said to be in remission.
However, MRI data have shown that this is somewhat misleading because MS lesions continue to appear during these remission periods.
Patients do not experience symptoms during remission because the inflammation may not be severe or it may occur in areas of the brain that do not produce obvious symptoms.
Research suggests that only about 1 out of every 10 MS lesions is perceived by a person with MS.
Therefore, MRI examination plays a very important role in establishing an MS diagnosis, deciding when the disease should be treated, and determining whether treatments work effectively or not.
It also has been a valuable tool to test whether an experimental new therapy is effective at reducing exacerbations.
Who Is at Risk for Asthma?
Young children who often wheeze and have respiratory infections - as well as certain other risk factors - are at highest risk of developing asthma that continues beyond 6 years of age.
The other risk factors include having allergies, eczema an allergic skin condition, or parents who have asthma.
Who Is at Risk for Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia?
Some people who have PCD have breathing problems from the moment of birth.
However, other people can go through all or most of their lives without knowing that they have the disease.
What are the Major Effects of the Disease?
In some individuals, the disease may begin with uncontrolled movements in the fingers, feet, face, or trunk.
These movements - which are signs of chorea - often intensify when the person is anxious.
HD can also begin with mild clumsiness or problems with balance.
Some people develop choreic movements later, after the disease has progressed.
They may stumble or appear uncoordinated.
Chorea often creates serious problems with walking, increasing the likelihood of falls.
How Is High Blood Pressure Treated?
Most people who have HBP will need lifelong treatment.
Sticking to your treatment plan is important.
It can help prevent or delay problems related to HBP and help you live and stay active longer.
How is a colonoscopy performed?
For the test, the person will lie on a table while the gastroenterologist inserts a colonoscope into the anus and slowly guides it through the rectum and into the colon.
The scope inflates the large intestine with air to give the gastroenterologist a better view.
The camera sends a video image of the intestinal lining to a computer screen, allowing the gastroenterologist to carefully examine the intestinal tissues.
The gastroenterologist may move the person several times so the scope can be adjusted for better viewing.
Once the scope has reached the opening to the small intestine, the gastroenterologist slowly withdraws it and examines the lining of the large intestine again.
What should you expect during Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator Surgery?
Once the wires are in place, your doctor will make a small cut into the skin of your chest or abdomen.
He or she will then slip the ICD's small metal box through the cut and just under your skin.
The box contains the battery, pulse generator, and computer.
What is An endoscope?
An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing.
What is Project CHOICES Plus?
Project CHOICES Plus is a randomized controlled trial taking place in two hospitals and 11 community health clinics of the Harris County Hospital District in Harris County, Texas.
What is Osteogenesis imperfecta OI?
Osteogenesis imperfecta OI is a connective tissue disorder characterized by fragile bones, weak muscles, and loose ligaments.
What is Chemonucleolysis?
Chemonucleolysis is a treatment in which an enzyme, chymopapain, is injected directly into a herniated lumbar disc see Spine Basics in the Appendix in an effort to dissolve material around the disc, thus reducing pressure and pain.
What is Energy IN?
Energy IN is the amount of energy or calories you get from food and drinks.
What types of birth control help prevent STDs?
Non-barrier methods, like birth control pills and intrauterine devices IUDs, don't prevent STDs.
If you choose one of these methods, you will still need male latex condoms to help prevent HIV and other STDs.
Are there other MD-like conditions?
There are many other heritable diseases that affect the muscles, the nerves, or the neuromuscular junction.
Such diseases as inflammatory myopathy, progressive muscle weakness, and cardiomyopathy heart muscle weakness that interferes with pumping ability may produce symptoms that are very similar to those found in some forms of MD, but they are caused by different genetic defects.
The differential diagnosis for people with similar symptoms includes congenital myopathy, spinal muscular atrophy, and congenital myasthenic syndromes.
The sharing of symptoms among multiple neuromuscular diseases, and the prevalence of sporadic cases in families not previously affected by MD, often makes it difficult for people with MD to obtain a quick diagnosis.
Gene testing can provide a definitive diagnosis for many types of MD, but not all genes have been discovered that are responsible for some types of MD.
Some individuals may have signs of MD, but carry none of the currently recognized genetic mutations.
Studies of other related muscle diseases may, however, contribute to what we know about MD.
What Research Is Being Done on Epilepsy?
Researchers are studying the causes and risk factors that lead to sudden and unexpected death in individuals with epilepsy.
Other scientists are investigating novel, innovative approaches to studying the epilepsies.
Two new areas of research in the epilepsies include prevention of seizures anti-epileptogenesis and the role of inflammation in epilepsy.
Researchers are exploring the causes of epilepsy in individuals with specific genetic disorders Dravet Syndrome, Tuberous Sclerosis Complex, Rett Syndrome, as well as after traumatic brain injury, stroke, or a brain tumor in order to understand the underlying mechanisms that lead to seizures.
This research will provide the opportunity to develop new therapies designed to prevent epilepsy from developing in those individuals who are at high risk.
How Is Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose IPF based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
Tests can help rule out other causes of your symptoms and show how badly your lungs are damaged.
What Does an Electrocardiogram Show?
An EKG can reveal whether the heartbeat starts in the correct place in the heart.
The test also shows how long it takes for electrical signals to travel through the heart.
Delays in signal travel time may suggest heart block or long QT syndrome.
What is A polysomnogram PSG?
A polysomnogram PSG is a type of sleep study.
What are the signs and symptoms of short bowel syndrome?
Diarrhea is the main symptom of short bowel syndrome.
Diarrhea can lead to dehydration, malnutrition, and weight loss.
These problems can be severe and can cause death without proper treatment.
What kind of flu vaccines are there?
There are two types of vaccines that protect against the flu.
The 'flu shot' is an inactivated vaccine containing killed virus that is given with a needle, usually in the arm.
The flu shot is approved for use among people 6 months of age or older, including healthy people and those with chronic medical conditions such as asthma, diabetes, or heart disease.
A different kind of vaccine, called the nasal-spray flu vaccine sometimes referred to as LAIV for Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine or FluMist, was approved in 2003.
The nasal-spray flu vaccine contains attenuated weakened live viruses, and is administered by nasal sprayer.
It is approved for use only among healthy* people 2-49 years of age who are not pregnant.
Can chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis be cured?
If you have an STD, it's important to get treatment right away.
It's also important to tell anyone that you have sex with so he or she can get treatment, too.
This will help prevent you from getting infected again.
What is Giant cell arteritis?
Giant cell arteritis is the most common form of vasculitis in adults older than 50.
What is Aicardi syndrome?
Aicardi syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that primarily affects newborn girls.
How Is Osteogenesis Imperfecta Treated?
A healthy lifestyle also helps people with OI.
You can help prevent broken bones and maintain your health if you:
What research is being done for Sturge-Weber Syndrome?
The NINDS supports a broad program of research to better understand congenital seizure disorders.
This research is aimed at developing techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure disorders such as Sturge-Weber syndrome.
How Is Excessive Blood Clotting Treated?
Excessive blood clotting is treated with medicines.
Depending on the size and location of the clots, you may need emergency treatment or routine treatment.
What is External bleeding usually?
External bleeding usually is the first sign of a low platelet count.
What is cerebral palsy?
CP is a group of disorders that affects a person's ability to move and maintain balance and posture.
CP is caused by abnormal brain development or damage to the developing brain that affects a person's ability to control his or her muscles.
The specific cause of most cases of CP is unknown.
Is there any treatment for Ataxias and Cerebellar or Spinocerebellar Degeneration?
There is no cure for the hereditary ataxias.
If the ataxia is caused by another condition, that underlying condition is treated first.
For example, ataxia caused by a metabolic disorder may be treated with medications and a controlled diet.
Vitamin deficiency is treated with vitamin therapy.
A variety of drugs may be used to either effectively prevent symptoms or reduce the frequency with which they occur.
Physical therapy can strengthen muscles, while special devices or appliances can assist in walking and other activities of daily life.
What is Cytomegalovirus CMV?
Cytomegalovirus CMV is the most common virus that babies are born with in the United States 1 in 150 babies.
How Is Hypersensitivity Pneumonitis Treated?
People who have chronic HP may develop pulmonary fibrosis.
This is a condition in which tissue deep in your lungs becomes scarred over time.
People who have this condition may need further treatment, such as oxygen therapy and pulmonary rehabilitation rehab.
What causes MS?
The last possibility has been the favored explanation for many years.
Research now suggests that the first two activities might also play a role in the development of MS.
There is a special barrier, called the blood-brain barrier, which separates the brain and spinal cord from the immune system.
If there is a break in the barrier, it exposes the brain to the immune system for the first time.
When this happens, the immune system may misinterpret the brain as 'foreign.'.
How Do You Get Scarlet Fever?
Group A strep bacteria can live in a person's nose and throat.
The bacteria are spread through contact with droplets from an infected person's cough or sneeze.
If you touch your mouth, nose, or eyes after touching something that has these droplets on it, you may become ill.
If you drink from the same glass or eat from the same plate as the sick person, you could also become ill.
It is possible to get scarlet fever from contact with sores from group A strep skin infections.
What do People With Asthma Need to Know About Osteoporosi?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33578361.xml:
What Is Heart Block?
Heart block is a problem that occurs with the heart's electrical system.
This system controls the rate and rhythm of heartbeats.
Rate refers to the number of times your heart beats per minute.
Rhythm refers to the pattern of regular or irregular pulses produced as the heart beats..
What is Hemoglobin?
Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that gives blood its red color.
What are the signs and symptoms of TSC?
Angiomyolipomas-benign growths consisting of fatty tissue and muscle cells-are the most common kidney lesions in TSC.
These growths are seen in the majority ofindividuals with TSC, but are also found in about one of every 300 people without TSC.
Angiomyolipomas caused by TSC are usually found in both kidneys and in most cases they produce no symptoms.
However, they can sometimes grow so large that they cause pain or kidney failure.
Bleeding from angiomyolipomas may also occur, causing both pain and weakness.
If severe bleeding does not stop naturally, there may severe blood loss, resulting in profound anemia and a life-threatening drop in blood pressure, warranting urgent medical attention.
What research is being done for Generalized Gangliosidoses?
The National Library of Medicine NLM, a component of the National Institutes of Health NIH within the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, offers free searches of biomedical literature through an Internet service called PubMed.
Go to: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed.
The NLM also offers extensive health information from NIH and other trusted sources.
Go to: www.medlineplus.gov.
What Are the Risks of Blood Tests?
The main risks of blood tests are discomfort and bruising at the site where the needle is inserted.
These issues usually are minor and go away shortly after the tests are done.
CanH.
pylori infection be prevented?
No one knows for sure how H.
pylori spreads, so prevention is difficult.
Researchers are trying to develop a vaccine to prevent - and even cure - H.
pylori infection.
To help prevent infection, doctors advise people to.
How long after infection do symptoms appear?
Symptoms of giardiasis normally begin 1 to 3 weeks after becoming infected.
What Is Osteonecrosis?
The amount of disability that results from osteonecrosis depends on what part of the bone is affected, how large an area is involved, and how effectively the bone rebuilds itself.
Normally, bone continuously breaks down and rebuilds - old bone is replaced with new bone.
This process, which takes place after an injury as well as during normal growth, keeps the skeleton strong and helps it to maintain a balance of minerals.
In the course of osteonecrosis, however, the healing process is usually ineffective and the bone tissues break down faster than the body can repair them.
If left untreated, the disease progresses, the bone collapses, and the joint surface breaks down, leading to pain and arthritis.
How is GERD treated in children and adolescents?
Treatment for GERD for children and adolescents may involve one or more of the following, depending on the severity of symptoms: lifestyle changes, medications, or surgery.
What Are Holes in the Heart?
The heart has two sides, separated by an inner wall called the septum.
With each heartbeat, the right side of the heart receives oxygen-poor blood from the body and pumps it to the lungs.
The left side of the heart receives oxygen-rich blood from the lungs and pumps it to the body.
What are the signs, symptoms, and types of treatment available forSalmonella infections?
Sometimes, people can become so sick from a Salmonella infection that they have to go to the hospital.
Infants, elderly persons, and those with weakened immune systems are more likely than others to develop severe illness.
When severe infection occurs, Salmonella may spread from the intestines to the bloodstream and then to other body sites and can cause death unless the person is treated promptly with antibiotics.
Looking back, has your perception of the attacks or the response changed from how you saw them ten years ago?
Anthrax attacks ushered in a new era in outbreak preparedness and response at national, state, and local levels.
CDC and the nation are much better prepared to respond today.
The attacks drove home the reality of the threat posed by terrorism and the need to be prepared to address the unexpected.
Numerous challenges remain, two of which are lack of surge capacity of the healthcare system in today's just in time economy and vulnerability to cyberterrorism.
What do I tell my child about pregnancy and STDs?
Make sure your kids have the facts they need to make healthy decisions.
This includes information about pregnancy and STDs sexually transmitted diseases, like HIV/AIDS and herpes.
Who is at risk?
All cerebral aneurysms have the potential to rupture and cause bleeding within the brain.
The incidence of reported ruptured aneurysm is about 10 in every 100,000 persons per year about 30,000 individuals per year in the U.S., most commonly in people between ages 30 and 60 years.
Possible risk factors for rupture include hypertension, alcohol abuse, drug abuse particularly cocaine, and smoking.
In addition, the condition and size of the aneurysm affects the risk of rupture.
What should you expect before Catheter Ablation?
Stress testing.
Some heart problems are easier to diagnose when your heart is working hard and beating fast.
During stress testing, you exercise to make your heart work hard and beat fast while heart tests are done.
If you can't exercise, you may be given medicine to raise your heart rate.
What is an upper gastrointestinal GI series?
An upper GI series, also called a barium swallow, uses x rays and fluoroscopy to help diagnose problems of the upper GI tract.
An x ray is a picture created by using radiation and recorded on film or on a computer.
Fluoroscopy is a form of x ray that makes it possible to see the internal organs and their motion on a video monitor.
To make the upper GI tract more visible on x ray, a health care provider will fill the person's upper GI tract with a chalky liquid called barium.
The two types of upper GI series are.
What is Angioplasty?
Angioplasty is a nonsurgical procedure that opens blocked or narrowed coronary arteries.
How can I test a toy for lead?
Only a certified laboratory can accurately test a toy for lead.
Although do-it-yourself kits are available, they do not indicate how much lead is present, and their reliability at detecting low levels of lead has not been determined.
What is bowel diversion surgery?
Some bowel diversion surgeries - those called ostomy surgery - divert the bowel to an opening in the abdomen where a stoma is created.
A surgeon forms a stoma by rolling the bowel's end back on itself, like a shirt cuff, and stitching it to the abdominal wall.
An ostomy pouch is attached to the stoma and worn outside the body to collect stool.
Can proctitis be prevented?
People who receive anal sex can avoid getting STD-related proctitis by having their partner use a condom.
If anorectal trauma caused proctitis, stopping the activity that triggered inflammation often will stop the inflammation and prevent recurrence.
Is there any treatment for Hypersomnia?
Treatment is symptomatic in nature.
Stimulants, such as amphetamine, methylphenidate, and modafinil, may be prescribed.
Other drugs used to treat hypersomnia include clonidine, levodopa, bromocriptine, antidepressants, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors.
Changes in behavior for example avoiding night work and social activities that delay bed time and diet may offer some relief.
Patients should avoid alcohol and caffeine.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Metabolic Syndrome?
Metabolic syndrome is a group of risk factors that raises your risk for heart disease and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke.
These risk factors can increase your risk for health problems even if they're only moderately raised borderline-high risk factors.
What is Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome?
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is a life-threatening, neurological disorder most often caused by an adverse reaction to neuroleptic or antipsychotic drugs.
Symptoms include high fever, sweating, unstable blood pressure, stupor, muscular rigidity, and autonomic dysfunction.
In most cases, the disorder develops within the first 2 weeks of treatment with the drug; however, the disorder may develop any time during the therapy period.
The syndrome can also occur in people taking anti-Parkinsonism drugs known as dopaminergics if those drugs are discontinued abruptly.
What research is being done for Hypertonia?
NINDS supports research on brain and spinal cord disorders that can cause hypertonia.
The goals of this research are to learn more about how the nervous system adapts after injury or disease and to find ways to prevent and treat these disorders.
What Are the Risks of an Electrocardiogram?
An electrocardiogram EKG has no serious risks.
It's a harmless, painless test that detects the heart's electrical activity.
EKGs don't give off electrical charges, such as shocks.
How Can Pernicious Anemia Be Prevented?
Vitamin B12 also is found in multivitamins and B-complex vitamin supplements.
Doctors may recommend supplements for people at risk for vitamin B12 deficiency, such as strict vegetarians or people who have had stomach surgery.
What is Hepatitis A?
Hepatitis A is a liver disease caused by the hepatitis A virus HAV.
How are aneurysms classified?
There are three types of cerebral aneurysm.
A saccular aneurysm is a rounded or pouch-like sac of blood that is attached by a neck or stem to an artery or a branch of a blood vessel.
Also known as a berry aneurysm because it resembles a berry hanging from a vine, this most common form of cerebral aneurysm is typically found on arteries at the base of the brain.
Saccular aneurysms occur most often in adults.
A lateral aneurysm appears as a bulge on one wall of the blood vessel, while a fusiform aneurysm is formed by the widening along all walls of the vessel.
What is Hemolytic anemia?
Hemolytic anemia is a type of anemia.
How Can Osteoporosis Be Prevented?
Talk to your doctor if you have a family history of osteoporosis or other factors that may put you at increased risk for the disease.
Your doctor may suggest that you have your bone density measured through a safe and painless test that can determine your risk for fractures broken bones, and measure your response to osteoporosis treatment.
The most widely recognized bone mineral density BMD test is called a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, or DXA test.
The BMD test is painless - a bit like having an x-ray, but with much less exposure to radiation.
It can measure bone density at your hip and spine.
Can children get rotavirus vaccine when they are breastfeeding?
Yes.
Children who are being breastfed should get rotavirus vaccine on schedule.
What Are the Risks of Smoking?
Lower your HDL cholesterol sometimes called good cholesterol and raise your LDL cholesterol sometimes called bad cholesterol.
Smoking also increases your triglyceride level.
Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood.
What other health problems do people with celiac disease have?
People with celiac disease tend to have other diseases in which the immune system attacks the body's healthy cells and tissues.
The connection between celiac disease and these diseases may be genetic.
They include.
Why was BSL-3-enhanced containment used for work on the 1918 H1N1 virus when most human influenza viruses of the H1N1 subtype are handled under much less stringent containment?
The appropriate biosafety measures for working a given pathogen depend upon a number of factors, including previous experience with the pathogen or similar pathogens, the virulence and transmissibility of the pathogen, the type of experiment, and the availability of vaccines and/or antimicrobial drugs effective against the pathogen.
Prior to reconstruction of the 1918 virus, CDC carefully evaluated the specific studies to be conducted and concluded that this research could safely and securely be done under BSL-3-enhanced containment.
All viruses containing one or more gene segments from the 1918 influenza virus were generated and handled under high-containment BSL 3-enhanced laboratory conditions in accordance with guidelines of NIH and CDC.
The recommendations for biosafety levels are made by a panel of experts and are followed in a stringent manner.
What causes HD?
Before birth, a child's nerve cells normally grow along the intestines in the direction of the anus.
With HD, the nerve cells stop growing too soon.
Why the nerve cells stop growing is unclear.
Some HD is inherited, meaning it is passed from parent to child through genes.
HD is not caused by anything a mother did while pregnant.
Is there any treatment for Cushing's Syndrome?
Treatment of Cushing's syndrome depends on the cause of excess cortisol.
If the cause is long-term use of a medication being used to treat another disorder, the physician may reduce the dosage until symptoms are under control.
Surgery or radiotherapy may be used to treat pituitary adenomas.
Surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or a combination of these may be used to treat ectopic ACTH syndrome.
The aim of surgical treatment is to cure hypercortisolism by removing the tumor while minimizing the chance of endocrine deficiency or long-term dependence on medications.
The U.S.
Food and Drug Administration has approved pasireotide diasparate, taken by injection, for individuals who cannot be helped through surgery.
What is the prognosis for Polymyositis?
The prognosis for polymyositis varies.
Most people respond fairly well to therapy, but some have a more severe disease that does not respond adequately to therapies and are left with significant disability.
In rare cases individuals with severe and progressive muscle weakness will develop respiratory failure or pneumonia.
Difficulty swallowing may cause weight loss and malnutrition.
Is there any treatment for Neurological Complications of Lyme Disease?
Lyme disease is treated with antibiotics under the supervision of a physician.
What is Targeted therapy?
Targeted therapy is a treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells.
Could a 1918-like H1N1 virus re-emerge and cause a pandemic again?
It is impossible to predict with certainly, but the probability of the 1918 virus re-emerging from a natural source appears to be remote.
Influenza experts believe that a pandemic is most likely to be caused by an influenza subtype to which there is little, or no, preexisting immunity in the human population.
There is evidence that some residual immunity to the 1918 virus, or a similar virus, is present in at least a portion of the human population.
Since contemporary H1N1 viruses circulate widely and the current annual influenza vaccines contain an H1N1 component, a 1918-like H1N1 virus would not fit the current criteria for a new pandemic strain.
Who Is at Risk for Sudden Cardiac Arrest?
The risk of sudden cardiac arrest SCA increases with age.
The risk also is higher if you have underlying heart disease.
Men are two to three times more likely to have SCA than women.
How Are Congenital Heart Defects Diagnosed?
Severe congenital heart defects generally are diagnosed during pregnancy or soon after birth.
Less severe defects often aren't diagnosed until children are older.
How is back pain treated?
Exercise may be the most effective way to speed recovery from low back pain and help strengthen back and abdominal muscles.
Maintaining and building muscle strength is particularly important for persons with skeletal irregularities.
Doctors and physical therapists can provide a list of gentle exercises that help keep muscles moving and speed the recovery process.
A routine of back-healthy activities may include stretching exercises, swimming, walking, and movement therapy to improve coordination and develop proper posture and muscle balance.
Yoga is another way to gently stretch muscles and ease pain.
Any mild discomfort felt at the start of these exercises should disappear as muscles become stronger.
But if pain is more than mild and lasts more than 15 minutes during exercise, patients should stop exercising and contact a doctor.
How many people have these disorders?
Batten disease and other forms of NCL are relatively rare, occurring in an estimated 2 to 4 of every 100,000 live births in the United States.
These disorders appear to be more common in Finland, Sweden, other parts of northern Europe, and Newfoundland, Canada.
Although NCLs are classified as rare diseases, they often strike more than one person in families that carry the defective genes.
How Will the Doctor Help?
After the doctor knows what kind of arthritis you have, he or she will talk with you about the best way to treat it.
The doctor may give you a prescription for medicine that will help with the pain, stiffness, and inflammation.
Health insurance or public assistance may help you pay for the medicine, doctor visits, tests, and x rays.
What isStachybotrys chartarumStachybotrys atra?
Stachybotrys chartarum also known by its synonym Stachybotrys atra is a greenish-black mold.
It can grow on material with a high cellulose and low nitrogen content, such as fiberboard, gypsum board, paper, dust, and lint.
Growth occurs when there is moisture from water damage, excessive humidity, water leaks, condensation, water infiltration, or flooding.
Constant moisture is required for its growth.
It is not necessary, however, to determine what type of mold you may have.
All molds should be treated the same with respect to potential health risks and removal.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Heart Failure?
Fluid buildup from heart failure also causes weight gain, frequent urination, and a cough that's worse at night and when you're lying down.
This cough may be a sign of acute pulmonary edema e-DE-ma.
This is a condition in which too much fluid builds up in your lungs.
The condition requires emergency treatment.
What is an upper gastrointestinal GI endoscopy?
An upper GI endoscopy is a procedure that uses an endoscope - a small, flexible tube with a light - to see the lining of the upper GI tract.
A gastroenterologist, surgeon, or other trained health care provider performs the procedure.
A gastroenterologist is a doctor who specializes in digestive diseases.
A health care provider may refer to the procedure as an EGD or esophagogastroduodenoscopy.
What is the prognosis for Multiple System Atrophy?
The disease tends to advance rapidly over the course of 9 to 10 years, with progressive loss of motor skills, eventual confinement to bed, and death.
There is no remission from the disease.
There is currently no cure.
What is Stroke?
A stroke occurs when the blood supply to part of the brain is suddenly interrupted or when a blood vessel in the brain bursts, spilling blood into the spaces surrounding brain cells.
Brain cells die when they no longer receive oxygen and nutrients from the blood or there is sudden bleeding into or around the brain.
The symptoms of a stroke include sudden numbness or weakness, especially on one side of the body; sudden confusion or trouble speaking or understanding speech; sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes; sudden trouble with walking, dizziness, or loss of balance or coordination; or sudden severe headache with no known cause.
There are two forms of stroke: ischemic - blockage of a blood vessel supplying the brain, and hemorrhagic - bleeding into or around the brain.
How can I get help paying for these vaccines?
The Vaccines for Children VFC program provides vaccines for children ages 18 years and younger, who are not insured or under-insured, Medicaid-eligible, American Indian or Alaska Native.
You can find out more about the VFC program by going online to CDC and typing VFC in the search box.
Is there any treatment for Encephalitis Lethargica?
Treatment for encephalitis lethargica is symptomatic.
Levodopa and other antiparkinson drugs often produce dramatic responses.
What is Giant axonal neuropathy GAN?
Giant axonal neuropathy GAN is a rare inherited genetic disorder that affects both the central and peripheral nervous systems.
What if the air in my home is too dry?
If the air in your home is dry in the winter, you can use a humidifier.
Just be sure to still keep the humidity level between 30 and 60 percent.
Who Is at Risk for These Problems?
'I was training really hard - all the time.
Finally, my parents made me quit the cross country team.I was eating almost nothing, training with a stress fracture.I trained even when my body ached.
I thought the pain, the headaches, and the missed menstrual periods were normal.
I thought that was how a 'champion' was supposed to feel and train.
I was proud of myself for being so thin and disciplined, and losing all the 'baby fat' I had carried throughout junior high school.
My friends all said, 'Gosh, you have lost so much weight!' But I wasn't in control.
After my parents made me quit the team and took me to get help, I realized that my training regimen was not normal or healthy.
I realized that I was hurting myself, and that I did not have to be obsessive about my weight, eating habits, and exercise in order to be attractive.
I still exercise now, and I watch what I eat, but I am much more relaxed, healthier my doctor says!, and happier.
I have more energy - and more fun.
I don't have to set any records anymore, and I am a champion anyway!'
What is Standards for judging what?
Standards for judging what is an acceptable, tolerable, or normal quantity of mold have not been established.
What Causes Coronary Microvascular Disease?
Older age.
As you get older, your risk for atherosclerosis increases.
Genetic or lifestyle factors cause plaque to build up in your arteries as you age.
By the time you're middle-aged or older, enough plaque has built up to cause signs and symptoms.
In men, the risk increases after age 45.
In women, the risk increases after age 55.
What research is being done for Porencephaly?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to porencephaly in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research explores the complex mechanisms of normal brain development.
The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies will provide a foundation for developing ways to prevent porecephaly and the other cephalic disorders.
Is there any treatment for Repetitive Motion Disorders?
Treatment for RMDs usually includes reducing or stopping the motions that cause symptoms.
Options include taking breaks to give the affected area time to rest, and adopting stretching and relaxation exercises.
Applying ice to the affected area and using medications such as pain relievers, cortisone, and anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce pain and swelling.
Splints may be able to relieve pressure on the muscles and nerves.
Physical therapy may relieve the soreness and pain in the muscles and joints.
In rare cases, surgery may be required to relieve symptoms and prevent permanent damage.
Some employers have developed ergonomic programs to help workers adjust their pace of work and arrange office equipment to minimize problems.
What Causes Osteonecrosis?
Osteonecrosis is caused by impaired blood supply to the bone, but it is not always clear what causes that impairment.
Osteonecrosis often occurs in people with certain medical conditions or risk factors such as high-dose corticosteroid use or excessive alcohol intake.
However, it also affects people with no health problems and for no known reason.
Following are some potential causes of osteonecrosis and other health conditions associated with its development.
How do the muscular dystrophies differ?
Duchenne MD usually becomes apparent during the toddler years, sometimes soon after an affected child begins to walk.
Progressive weakness and muscle wasting a decrease in muscle strength and size caused by degenerating muscle fibers begins in the upper legs and pelvis before spreading into the upper arms.
Other symptoms include loss of some reflexes, a waddling gait, frequent falls and clumsiness especially when running, difficulty when rising from a sitting or lying position or when climbing stairs, changes to overall posture, impaired breathing, lung weakness, and cardiomyopathy.
Many children are unable to run or jump.
The wasting muscles, in particular the calf muscles and, less commonly, muscles in the buttocks, shoulders, and arms, may be enlarged by an accumulation of fat and connective tissue, causing them to look larger and healthier than they actually are called pseudohypertrophy.
As the disease progresses, the muscles in the diaphragm that assist in breathing and coughing may weaken.
Affected individuals may experience breathing difficulties, respiratory infections, and swallowing problems.
Bone thinning and scoliosis curving of the spine are common.
Some affected children have varying degrees of cognitive and behavioral impairments.
Between ages 3 and 6, children may show brief periods of physical improvement followed later on by progressive muscle degeneration.
Children with Duchenne MD typically lose the ability to walk by early adolescence.
Without aggressive care, they usually die in their late teens or early twenties from progressive weakness of the heart muscle, respiratory complications, or infection.
However, improvements in multidisciplinary care have extended the life expectancy and improved the quality of life significantly for these children; numerous individuals with Duchenne muscular dystrophy now survive into their 30s, and some even into their 40s.
6.
I have a medical condition.
Can I still do strength training?
It is important to start conservatively and progress slowly.
Consider working with a qualified fitness instructor, at least for a few sessions, to make sure your exercise form is correct.
Pay attention to your body.
Strength training should never cause pain.
Feeling good is an indication that you are exercising properly.
What is Diabetic neuropathy?
Diabetic neuropathy is a peripheral nerve disorder caused by diabetes or poor blood sugar control.
What is the prognosis for Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome?
Early identification of and treatment for individuals with neuroleptic malignant syndrome improves outcome.
If clinically indicated, a low potency neuroleptic can be reintroduced very slowly when the individual recovers, although there is a risk that the syndrome might recur.
Another alternative is to substitute another class of drugs for the neuroleptic.
Anesthesia may be a risk to individuals who have experienced neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
What is Cirrhosis?
Cirrhosis is a disease in which the liver is scarred.
What is Mumps vaccine?
Mumps vaccine is the best way to protect your child against mumps.
What is Flexible sigmoidoscopy?
Flexible sigmoidoscopy is a test that uses a flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end to look inside the rectum and the lower colon.
How common is pancreatitis in children?
Chronic pancreatitis in children is rare.
Trauma to the pancreas and hereditary pancreatitis are two known causes of childhood pancreatitis.
Children with cystic fibrosis - a progressive and incurable lung disease - may be at risk of developing pancreatitis.
But more often the cause of pancreatitis in children is unknown.
What do I ask the doctor?
It helps to have questions for the doctor written down ahead of time.
Print this list of questions, and take it to your next appointment.
You may want to ask a family member or close friend to come with you to take notes.
What is cirrhosis?
The buildup of scar tissue that causes cirrhosis is usually a slow and gradual process.
In the early stages of cirrhosis, the liver continues to function.
However, as cirrhosis gets worse and scar tissue replaces more healthy tissue, the liver will begin to fail.
Chronic liver failure, which is also called end-stage liver disease, progresses over months, years, or even decades.
With end-stage liver disease, the liver can no longer perform important functions or effectively replace damaged cells.
What is Heart valve disease?
Heart valve disease is a lifelong condition.
What are the symptoms of primary biliary cirrhosis?
Some people may have jaundice, a condition that causes the skin and whites of the eyes to turn yellow.
Health care providers diagnose up to 60 percent of people with primary biliary cirrhosis before symptoms begin.
Routine blood tests showing abnormal liver enzyme levels may lead a health care provider to suspect that a person without symptoms has primary biliary cirrhosis.
Can the IRAT predict a future pandemic?
No.
The IRAT is an evaluative tool, not a predictive tool.
Flu is unpredictable, as are future pandemics.
What is Back pain?
Back pain is an all-too-familiar problem that can range from a dull, constant ache to a sudden, sharp pain that leaves you incapacitated.
What Is Juvenile Arthritis?
'Arthritis' means joint inflammation.
This term refers to a group of diseases that cause pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of motion in the joints.
Arthritis is also used more generally to describe the more than 100 rheumatic diseases that may affect the joints but can also cause pain, swelling, and stiffness in other supporting structures of the body such as muscles, tendons, ligaments, and bones.
Some rheumatic diseases can affect other parts of the body, including various internal organs.
Juvenile arthritis JA is a term often used to describe arthritis in children.
Children can develop almost all types of arthritis that affect adults, but the most common type that affects children is juvenile idiopathic arthritis.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Restless Legs Syndrome?
A strong urge to move your legs.
This urge often, but not always, occurs with unpleasant feelings in your legs.
When the disorder is severe, you also may have the urge to move your arms.
How is TS diagnosed?
TS is a diagnosis that doctors make after verifying that the patient has had both motor and vocal tics for at least 1 year.
The existence of other neurological or psychiatric conditions can also help doctors arrive at a diagnosis.
Common tics are not often misdiagnosed by knowledgeable clinicians.
However, atypical symptoms or atypical presentations for example, onset of symptoms in adulthood may require specific specialty expertise for diagnosis.
There are no blood, laboratory, or imaging tests needed for diagnosis.
In rare cases, neuroimaging studies, such as magnetic resonance imaging MRI or computerized tomography CT, electroencephalogram EEG studies, or certain blood tests may be used to rule out other conditions that might be confused with TS when the history or clinical examination is atypical.
What antiviral drugs are recommended this flu season?
There are two FDA-approved influenza antiviral drugs recommended by CDC this season.
The brand names for these are Tamiflu generic name oseltamivir and Relenza generic name zanamivir.
Tamiflu is available as a pill or liquid and Relenza is a powder that is inhaled.
Relenza is not for people with breathing problems like asthma or COPD, for example..
What is Whipple's Disease?
Whipple's disease is a multi-system infectious bacterial disease that interferes with the body's ability to metabolize fats.
The disorder can affect any system in the body, including the central nervous system, but usually occurs in the gastrointestinal system.
Gastrointestinal symptoms may include diarrhea, weight loss, fatigue, weakness, and abdominal bleeding and pain.
Neurological symptoms may include abnormalities of eye and facial muscle movements, confusion, seizures, ataxia, memory loss, and vision impairment.
Fever, cough, and joint soreness may also be present.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Thalassemias?
A lack of oxygen in the bloodstream causes the signs and symptoms of thalassemias.
The lack of oxygen occurs because the body doesn't make enough healthy red blood cells and hemoglobin.
The severity of symptoms depends on the severity of the disorder.
What is celiac disease?
Celiac disease is both a disease of malabsorption - meaning nutrients are not absorbed properly - and an abnormal immune reaction to gluten.
Celiac disease is also known as celiac sprue, nontropical sprue, and gluten-sensitive enteropathy.
Celiac disease is genetic, meaning it runs in families.
Sometimes the disease is triggered - or becomes active for the first time - after surgery, pregnancy, childbirth, viral infection, or severe emotional stress.
What Is High Blood Pressure?
Blood pressure is considered high if it stays at or above 140/90 mmHg over time.
If you have diabetes or chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure is defined as 130/80 mmHg or higher.
A diagnosis of high blood pressure is based on an average of two or more properly measured, seated blood pressure readings done during two or more office visits.
What is Vasculitis?
Vasculitis is an inflammation of blood vessels, which includes the veins, arteries, and capillaries.
What If I Still Hurt?
If you still hurt after using your medicine correctly and doing one or more of these things, call your doctor.
Another kind of medicine might work better for you.
Some people can also benefit from surgery, such as joint replacement.
I am breast feeding my 2-month-old baby.
Is it safe for me to receive the MMR vaccine?
Yes.
Breast feeding does not interfere with the response to MMR vaccine, and your baby will not be affected by the vaccine through your breast milk.
Is there any treatment for Friedreich's Ataxia?
There is currently no effective cure or treatment for Friedreich's ataxia.
However, many of the symptoms and accompanying complications can be treated to help patients maintain optimal functioning as long as possible.
Diabetes and heart problems can be treated with medications.
Orthopedic problems such as foot deformities and scoliosis can be treated with braces or surgery.
Physical therapy may prolong use of the arms and legs.
What are the symptoms?
Cataplexy is a sudden loss of muscle tone while the person is awake that leads to feelings of weakness and a loss of voluntary muscle control.
Attacks can occur at any time during the waking period, with individuals usually experiencing their first episodes several weeks or months after the onset of EDS.
But in about 10 percent of all cases, cataplexy is the first symptom to appear and can be misdiagnosed as a seizure disorder.
Cataplectic attacks vary in duration and severity.
The loss of muscle tone can be barely perceptible, involving no more than a momentary sense of slight weakness in a limited number of muscles, such as mild drooping of the eyelids.
The most severe attacks result in a complete loss of tone in all voluntary muscles, leading to physical collapse during which individuals are unable to move, speak, or keep their eyes open.
But even during the most severe episodes, people remain fully conscious, a characteristic that distinguishes cataplexy from seizure disorders.
Although cataplexy can occur spontaneously, it is more often triggered by sudden, strong emotions such as fear, anger, stress, excitement, or humor.
Laughter is reportedly the most common trigger.
What is bat influenza flu?
Bat influenza refers to influenza A viruses found in bats.
Bat influenza was first discovered in 'little yellow-shouldered bats' in Guatemala during a study conducted in 2009 and 2010 by experts from CDC and the Universidad del Valle University of the Valley in Guatemala*.
Bat influenza viruses have only been detected in little yellow-shouldered bats at this time.
Additional testing is needed to determine if bat influenza viruses are found in other types of bats.
Laboratory research at CDC suggests these viruses would need to undergo significant changes to become capable of infecting and spreading easily among humans.
Little yellow shouldered bats are not native to the continental United States, but are common in Central and South America.
What do People With Lactose Intolerance Need to Know About Osteoporosi?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33578343.xml:
Are current antivirals and vaccines effective against the 1918 virus?
Yes.
Two types of antiviral drugs, rimantadine Flumadine and oseltamivir Tamiflu, have been shown to be effective against influenza viruses similar to the 1918 virus.
Vaccines containing the 1918 HA or other subtype H1 HA proteins were effective in protecting mice against the 1918 virus.
In fact, the current influenza vaccine provided some level of protection against the 1918 virus in mice.
What Are the Symptoms of Paget's Disease?
Heart failure.
If Paget's disease is extensive, the heart may have to work harder to pump blood to the affected areas.
For people who have pre-existing heart disease, this added work can lead to heart failure, a condition in which the heart is unable to deliver enough blood to meet the body's needs.
What Causes Patent Ductus Arteriosus?
If your child has patent ductus arteriosus PDA, you may think you did something wrong during your pregnancy to cause the problem.
However, the cause of patent ductus arteriosus isn't known.
What is Biologic therapy?
Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer.
What is Spinal stenosis?
Spinal stenosis is the narrowing of the spinal canal, through which the spinal cord and spinal nerves run.
Who is more likely to develop hemochromatosis?
Both men and women can inherit the gene defects for hemochromatosis; however, not all will develop the symptoms of hemochromatosis.
Men usually develop symptoms at a younger age than women.
Women lose blood - which contains iron - regularly during menstruation; therefore, women with the gene defects that cause hemochromatosis may not develop iron overload and related symptoms and complications until after menopause.
What research is being done for Mucopolysaccharidoses?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Currently, scientists are working to identify the genes associated with the mucopolysaccharidoses syndromes and plan to test new therapies in animal models and in humans.
Research funded by the Institute has shown that viral-delivered gene therapy in animal models of the mucopolysaccharidoses can stop the buildup of storage materials in brain cells and improve learning and memory.
Researchers are planning additional studies, but it may be years before such treatment is available to humans.
How is Guillain-Barre treated?
Currently, plasma exchange also called plasmapheresis and high-dose immunoglobulin therapy are used.
Both of them are equally effective, but immunoglobulin is easier to administer.
Plasma exchange is a method by which whole blood is removed from the body and processed so that the red and white blood cells are separated from the plasma, or liquid portion of the blood.
The blood cells are then returned to the patient without the plasma, which the body quickly replaces.
Scientists still don't know exactly why plasma exchange works, but the technique seems to reduce the severity and duration of the Guillain-Barre episode.
This may be because plasmapheresis can remove antibodies and other immune cell-derived factors that could contribute to nerve damage.
Will I Need to Take Medicine for My Bones?
There are medicines to help prevent and treat osteoporosis.
Your doctor may want you to take medicine if your bone density test shows that your bones are weak and that you have a good chance of breaking a bone in the future.
Your doctor is more likely to order medicine if you have other health concerns that increase your risk for breaking a bone, such as a tendency to fall or a low body weight.
What are the types of porphyria?
Each of the eight types of porphyria corresponds to low levels of a specific enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway.
Experts often classify porphyrias as acute or cutaneous based on the symptoms a person experiences:
7.
If a woman has an FASD fetal alcohol spectrum disorder, but does not drink during pregnancy, can her child have an FASD?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33559159.xml:
How Is Insomnia Treated?
Several medicines also can help relieve insomnia and re-establish a regular sleep schedule.
However, if your insomnia is the symptom or side effect of another problem, it's important to treat the underlying cause if possible.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Who Gets Osteoporosis?
In the United States, more than 40 million people either already have osteoporosis or are at high risk due to low bone mass.
What research is being done for Infantile Spasms?
The NINDS supports broad and varied programs of research on epilepsy and other seizure disorders.
This research is aimed at discovering new ways to prevent, diagnose, and treat these disorders and, ultimately, to find cures for them.
Hopefully, more effective and safer treatments, such as neuroprotective agents, will be developed to treat IS and West Syndrome.
I look at the size tags on the clothes that fit me now and think, 'What could be better than this?
I developed a nerve problem in my face, and the medication I had to take for it made me gain even more weight.
It got to the point where none of my clothes fit me anymore.
I had nothing to wear.
I felt horrible emotionally and physically.
It was all I could think about.
I would spend all day trying to figure out how to fix this problem.
How is MSA diagnosed?
After taking a clinical history and performing a brief neurological examination, a doctor may order a number of tests to help make the diagnosis.
These tests include autonomic function tests, urine analysis and other tests to assess bladder function, and neuroimaging.
An MRI magnetic resonance imaging of the brain is done since there are some changes that seem to be specific for MSA.
MRI uses computer-generated radio waves and a powerful magnetic field to produce detailed images of body structures including tissues, organs, bones, and nerves.
A research PET scan positron emission tomography, which allows doctors to see how organs and tissues are functioning is sometimes used to see if metabolic function is reduced in specific parts of the brain that are associated with MSA.
A DaTSCAN measures dopamine transporter cells and can help physicians determine if the condition is caused by a dopamine system disorder such as Parkinson's disease or essential tremor.
Individuals with MSA typically have no improvement in their symptoms with levodopa, a drug used to treat Parkinson's disease, although this lack of response is not diagnostic of MSA.
What research is being done for Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker Disease?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on TSEs, including GSS.
Much of this research is aimed at characterizing the agents that cause these disorders, clarifying the mechanisms underlying them, and, ultimately, finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
What is the prognosis for Vasculitis Syndromes of the Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems?
The prognosis is dependent upon the specific syndrome, however, most of the syndromes are fatal if left untreated.
When do I need to get the seasonal flu shot?
Get the flu shot soon after it's available each year.
After you get the vaccine, your body takes about 2 weeks to develop protection against the flu.
That's why it's a good idea to get the vaccine before flu starts spreading in your community.
Can stress make Crohn's disease worse?
People with Crohn's disease sometimes feel more stress in their lives, which can make symptoms worse.
Eating well, getting enough rest, and learning to relax may help you through stressful times.
Support groups may help lower stress for people with Crohn's disease.
Ask your health care provider for help finding support groups.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Cardiogenic Shock?
If you or someone else is having these signs and symptoms, call 9 - 1 - 1 right away for emergency treatment.
Prompt medical care can save your life and prevent or limit organ damage.
What is Stage 0 colon cancer?
Stage 0 colon cancer is the most superficial of all the lesions and is limited to the mucosa without invasion of the lamina propria.
What is NF2?
This rare disorder affects about 1 in 25,000 people.
Approximately 50 percent of affected people inherit the disorder; in others the disorder is caused by a spontaneous genetic mutation of unknown cause.
The hallmark finding in NF2 is the presence of slow-growing tumors on the eighth cranial nerves.
These nerves have two branches: the acoustic branch helps people hear by transmitting sound sensations to the brain; and the vestibular branch helps people maintain their balance.
The characteristic tumors of NF2 are called vestibular schwannomas because of their location and the types of cells involved.
As these tumors grow, they may press against and damage nearby structures such as other cranial nerves and the brain stem, the latter which can cause serious disability.
Schwannomas in NF2 may occur along any nerve in the body, including the spinal nerves, other cranial nerves, and peripheral nerves in the body.
These tumors may be seen as bumps under the skin when the nerves involved are just under the skin surface or can also be seen on the skin surface as small less than 1 inch, dark, rough areas of hairy skin.
In children, tumors may be smoother, less pigmented, and less hairy.
What is Stiff-Person Syndrome?
Stiff-person syndrome SPS is a rare neurological disorder with features of an autoimmune disease.
SPS is characterized by fluctuating muscle rigidity in the trunk and limbs and a heightened sensitivity to stimuli such as noise, touch, and emotional distress, which can set off muscle spasms.
Abnormal postures, often hunched over and stiffened, are characteristic of the disorder.
People with SPS can be too disabled to walk or move, or they are afraid to leave the house because street noises, such as the sound of a horn, can trigger spasms and falls.
SPS affects twice as many women as men.
It is frequently associated with other autoimmune diseases such as diabetes, thyroiditis, vitiligo, and pernicious anemia.
Scientists don't yet understand what causes SPS, but research indicates that it is the result of an autoimmune response gone awry in the brain and spinal cord.
The disorder is often misdiagnosed as Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, fibromyalgia, psychosomatic illness, or anxiety and phobia.
A definitive diagnosis can be made with a blood test that measures the level of glutamic acid decarboxylase GAD antibodies in the blood.
People with SPS have elevated levels of GAD, an antibody that works against an enzyme involved in the synthesis of an important neurotransmitter in the brain.
What is A pacemaker?
A pacemaker is a small device that's placed in the chest or abdomen to help control abnormal heart rhythms.
What causes Guillain-Barre syndrome?
When Guillain-Barre is preceded by a viral or bacterial infection, it is possible that the virus has changed the nature of cells in the nervous system so that the immune system treats them as foreign cells.
It is also possible that the virus makes the immune system itself less discriminating about what cells it recognizes as its own, allowing some of the immune cells, such as certain kinds of lymphocytes and macrophages, to attack the myelin.
Sensitized T lymphocytes cooperate with B lymphocytes to produce antibodies against components of the myelin sheath and may contribute to destruction of the myelin.
In two forms of GBS, axons are attacked by antibodies against the bacteria Campylobacter jejuni, which react with proteins of the peripheral nerves.
Acute motor axonal neuropathy is particularly common in Chinese children.
Scientists are investigating these and other possibilities to find why the immune system goes awry in Guillain-Barre syndrome and other autoimmune diseases.
The cause and course of Guillain-Barre syndrome is an active area of neurological investigation, incorporating the cooperative efforts of neurological scientists, immunologists, and virologists.
What should you expect after a Nuclear Heart Scan?
The cardiologist or radiologist will read and interpret the results of your test.
He or she will report the results to your doctor, who will contact you to discuss them.
Or, the cardiologist or radiologist may contact you directly to discuss the results.
How Is Pernicious Anemia Diagnosed?
Your doctor will want to find out whether the condition is due to a lack of intrinsic factor or another cause.
He or she also will want to find out the severity of the condition, so it can be properly treated.
What research is being done for Holmes-Adie syndrome?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH, support research related to HAS through grants to major research institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders, such as HAS.
A qualified environmental lab took samples of the mold in my home and gave me the results.
Can CDC interpret these results?
Standards for judging what is an acceptable, tolerable, or normal quantity of mold have not been established.
If you do decide to pay for environmental sampling for molds, before the work starts, you should ask the consultants who will do the work to establish criteria for interpreting the test results.
They should tell you in advance what they will do or what recommendations they will make based on the sampling results.
The results of samples taken in your unique situation cannot be interpreted without physical inspection of the contaminated area or without considering the building's characteristics and the factors that led to the present condition.
What is Not on Tobacco NOT?
Not on Tobacco NOT is a proven smoking cessation program for teenagers; about 1 in 5 NOT participants report having quit by the end of the program.
What is Losing weight?
Losing weight is the first step.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
Can anyone with liver problems get a transplant?
Each transplant center has rules about who can have a liver transplant.
You may not be able to have a transplant if you have.
What are the symptoms of abdominal adhesions?
In most cases, abdominal adhesions do not cause symptoms.
When symptoms are present, chronic abdominal pain is the most common.
What is Acute basophilic leukemia?
Acute basophilic leukemia is an AML that exhibits a primary differentiation to basophils.
What is Osteopenia?
Osteopenia is a condition in which the bones become less dense, making them weaker.
What is the prognosis for Dystonias?
The initial symptoms can be very mild and may be noticeable only after prolonged exertion, stress, or fatigue.
Dystonias often progress through various stages.
Initially, dystonic movements are intermittent and appear only during voluntary movements or stress.
Later, individuals may show dystonic postures and movements while walking and ultimately even while they are relaxed.
Dystonic motions may lead to permanent physical deformities by causing tendons to shorten.
How are cerebral aneurysms diagnosed?
Angiography is a dye test used to analyze the arteries or veins.
An intracerebral angiogram can detect the degree of narrowing or obstruction of an artery or blood vessel in the brain, head, or neck, and can identify changes in an artery or vein such as a weak spot like an aneurysm.
It is used to diagnose stroke and to precisely determine the location, size, and shape of a brain tumor, aneurysm, or blood vessel that has bled.
This test is usually performed in a hospital angiography suite.
Following the injection of a local anesthetic, a flexible catheter is inserted into an artery and threaded through the body to the affected artery.
A small amount of contrast dye one that is highlighted on x-rays is released into the bloodstream and allowed to travel into the head and neck.
A series of x-rays is taken and changes, if present, are noted.
What Is Marfan Syndrome?
Marfan syndrome most often affects the connective tissue of the heart and blood vessels, eyes, bones, lungs, and covering of the spinal cord.
Because the condition affects many parts of the body, it can cause many complications.
Sometimes the complications are life threatening.
What Are the Risks of a Lung Ventilation/Perfusion Scan?
Lung ventilation/perfusion VQ scans involve little risk for most people.
The radioisotopes used for both tests expose you to a small amount of radiation.
The amount of radiation in the gas and injection together are about the same as the amount a person is naturally exposed to in 1 year.
What is Porencephaly?
Porencephaly is an extremely rare disorder of the central nervous system in which a cyst or cavity filled with cerebrospinal fluid develops in the brain.
It is usually the result of damage from stroke or infection after birth the more common type, but it can also be caused by abnormal development before birth which is inherited and less common.
Diagnosis is usually made before an infant reaches his or her first birthday.
Symptoms of porencephaly include delayed growth and development, spastic hemiplegia slight or incomplete paralysis, hypotonia low muscle tone, seizures often infantile spasms, and macrocephaly large head or microcephaly small head.
Children with porencephaly may have poor or absent speech development, epilepsy, hydrocephalus accumulation of fluid in the brain, spastic contractures shrinkage or shortening of the muscles, and mental retardation.
What is Acetaminophen?
Acetaminophen is the basic ingredient found in Tylenol and its many generic equivalents.
What does the liver do?
A healthy liver is necessary for survival.
A healthy liver can regenerate most of its own cells when they become damaged.
What is Orthostatic hypotension?
Orthostatic hypotension is a sudden fall in blood pressure that occurs when a person assumes a standing position.
What Causes Atherosclerosis?
When this happens, blood cell fragments called platelets PLATE-lets stick to the site of the injury.
They may clump together to form blood clots.
Clots narrow the arteries even more, limiting the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your body.
What is A heart murmur?
A heart murmur is an extra or unusual sound heard during a heartbeat.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia?
PCD also can cause fertility problems in men and women.
Fertility refers to the ability to have children.
In men, PCD can affect cilia-like structures that help sperm cells move.
Because the sperm cells don't move well, men who have the disease usually are unable to father children.
What is Iron deficiency?
Iron deficiency is a condition resulting from too little iron in the body.
What Causes Atrial Fibrillation?
Damage to the heart's electrical system causes AF.
The damage most often is the result of other conditions that affect the health of the heart, such as high blood pressure and coronary heart disease.
What do head lice look like?
Head lice have three forms: the egg also called a nit, the nymph, and the adult.
Is there any treatment for Refsum Disease?
The primary treatment for ARD is to restrict or avoid foods that contain phytanic acid, including dairy products; beef and lamb; and fatty fish such as tuna, cod, and haddock.
Some individuals may also require plasma exchange plasmapheresis in which blood is drawn, filtered, and reinfused back into the body, to control the buildup of phytanic acid.
Is there any treatment for Dysautonomia?
There is no cure for dysautonomia.
Secondary forms may improve with treatment of the underlying disease.
In many cases treatment of primary dysautonomia is symptomatic and supportive.
Measures to combat orthostatic hypotension include elevation of the head of the bed, frequent small meals, a high-salt diet, and drugs such as fludrocortisone, midodrine, and ephedrine.
Why Get Vaccinated?
Influenza the flu can be a serious disease that can lead to hospitalization and sometimes even death.
Anyone can get very sick from the flu, including people who are otherwise healthy.
What causes trigeminal neuralgia?
TN is associated with a variety of conditions.
TN can be caused by a blood vessel pressing on the trigeminal nerve as it exits the brain stem.
This compression causes the wearing away or damage to the protective coating around the nerve the myelin sheath.
TN symptoms can also occur in people with multiple sclerosis, a disease that causes deterioration of the trigeminal nerve's myelin sheath.
Rarely, symptoms of TN may be caused by nerve compression from a tumor, or a tangle of arteries and veins called an arteriovenous malformation.
Injury to the trigeminal nerve perhaps the result of sinus surgery, oral surgery, stroke, or facial trauma may also produce neuropathic facial pain.
What Causes Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia?
Primary ciliary dyskinesia PCD is a rare, inherited disease.
Inherited means the disease is passed from parents to children through genes.
With PCD, this process is very complex.
Researchers are still learning how the disease is inherited and which genes are involved.
Is there any treatment for Neurological Complications of AIDS?
Medicines range from analgesics sold over the counter to antiepileptic drugs, opiates, corticosteroids, and some classes of antidepressants.
Other treatments include radiation therapy or chemotherapy to kill or shrink cancerous brain tumors that may be caused by HIV, antifungal or antimalarial drugs to combat certain bacterial infections, and penicillin to treat neurosyphilis.
Aggressive antiretroviral therapy is used to treat AIDS dementia complex, PML, and cytomegalovirus encephalitis.
HAART, or highly active antiretroviral therapy, combines at least three drugs to reduce the amount of virus circulating in the blood and may also delay the start of some infections.
What should you expect after Cardiac MRI?
If you took medicine to help you relax during the test, your doctor will tell you when you can return to your normal routine.
The medicine will make you sleepy, so you'll need someone to drive you home.
How is autism treated?
Medications: Doctors may prescribe medications for treatment of specific autism-related symptoms, such as anxiety, depression, or obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Antipsychotic medications are used to treat severe behavioral problems.
Seizures can be treated with one or more anticonvulsant drugs.
Medication used to treat people with attention deficit disorder can be used effectively to help decrease impulsivity and hyperactivity.
What is the prognosis for Encephaloceles?
The prognosis for individuals with encephaloceles varies depending on the type of brain tissue involved, the location of the sacs, and the accompanying brain malformations.
What is Steatorrhea?
Steatorrhea is a condition in which the body cannot absorb fat, causing a buildup of fat in the stool and loose, greasy, and foul-smelling bowel movements.
What should you expect before a Nuclear Heart Scan?
Let your doctor know about any medicines you take, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, minerals, and other supplements.
Some medicines and supplements can interfere with the medicines that might be used during the stress test to raise your heart rate.
What Does the BMI-for-Age Percentile Mean?
For BMI-for-Age Percentile 5th percentile to less than the 85th percentile, , is Healthy weight!
How are antiviral medications used for flu?
While getting a flu vaccine each year is the best way to protect you from the flu, antiviral drugs can be used as a second line of defense to treat the flu or to prevent flu infection.
For treatment, antiviral drugs work best if started soon after getting sick within 2 days of symptoms.
When used this way, these drugs can reduce the severity of flu symptoms and shorten the time you are sick by 1 or 2 days.
They also may make you less contagious to other people.
What is Stem cell transplant?
Stem cell transplant is a method of giving chemotherapy and replacing blood-forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment.
Who Is at Risk for HFMD?
HFMD mostly affects infants and children younger than 5 years old.
However, older children and adults can get it, too.
When someone gets HFMD, they develop immunity to the specific virus that caused their infection.
However, because HFMD is caused by several different viruses, people can get the disease again.
Need more motivation?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33567587.xml:
What are the symptoms of a peptic ulcer?
Abdominal discomfort is the most common symptom of both gastric and duodenal ulcers.
Felt anywhere between the navel and the breastbone, this discomfort usually.
How many carotid endarterectomies are performed each year?
An estimated 140,000 carotid endarterectomies were performed in the United States in 2009, according to the National Hospital Discharge Survey.
The procedure was first described in the mid-1950s.
It began to be used increasingly as a stroke prevention measure in the 1960s and 1970s.
Its use peaked in the mid-1980s when more than 100,000 operations were performed each year.
At that time, several authorities began to question the trend and the risk-benefit ratio for some groups, and the use of the procedure dropped precipitously.
The NINDS-supported NASCET and ACAS trials were launched in the mid-1980s to identify the specific groups of people with carotid artery disease who would clearly benefit from the procedure.
What is A cerebral aneurysm?
A cerebral aneurysm is a weak or thin spot on a blood vessel in the brain that balloons out and fills with blood.
What is EC/IC bypass surgery?
EC/IC bypass surgery is a procedure that restores blood flow to a blood-deprived area of brain tissue by rerouting a healthy artery in the scalp to the area of brain tissue affected by a blocked artery.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Pulmonary Hypertension?
As PH worsens, you may find it hard to do any physical activities.
At this point, other signs and symptoms may include:
What happens if I get sick while I'm traveling?
Before you leave, make a list of the places you could go for help if you get sick.
For example, the United States has offices - called embassies and consulates - in many parts of the world.
Employees at U.S.
embassies and consulates can help U.S.
citizens in emergencies.
Who is especially at risk for getting sick?
Young children are at increased risk for Salmonella infection because their immune systems are still developing and because they are more likely than others to put their fingers or other items into their mouths.
Therefore, families with children aged 5 years or younger in the home should avoid keeping reptiles or amphibians as pets.
Who Is At Risk for Broken Heart Syndrome?
Broken heart syndrome affects women more often than men.
Often, people who experience broken heart syndrome have previously been healthy.
Research shows that the traditional risk factors for heart disease may not apply to broken heart syndrome.
What should I do when I am sick?
Seek medical attention early if you develop symptoms of the flu.
Treatment is available for persons with severe disease and those at high risk for complications.
Persons with inflammatory arthritis are considered high risk for complications from the flu; therefore, your health care provider may choose to prescribe antiviral medications for you if you get the flu.
What is the prognosis for Niemann-Pick Disease?
Infants with type A die in infancy.
Children with Type B may live a comparatively long time, but may require supplemental oxygen because of lung impairment.
The life expectancy of persons with types C and D varies: some individuals die in childhood while others, who appear to be less severely affected, can live into adulthood.
How are Chiari malformations diagnosed?
Magnetic resonance imaging MRI is the imaging procedure most often used to diagnose a CM.
Like CT, it is painless and noninvasive and is performed at an imaging center or hospital.
MRI uses radio waves and a powerful magnetic field to produce either a detailed three-dimensional picture or a two-dimensional 'slice' of body structures, including tissues, organs, bones, and nerves.
Depending on the parts of the body to be scanned, MRI can take up to an hour to complete.
What is Chronic kidney disease?
Chronic kidney disease is a condition in which the kidneys are damaged and cannot filter blood well.
What is Swine influenza swine flu?
Swine influenza swine flu is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by type A influenza viruses that regularly cause outbreaks of influenza in pigs.
How do people get infected?
People become infected with Salmonella when they put their hands or other things that have been in contact with feces in or around their mouth.
Young children are especially at risk for illness because their immune systems are still developing and because they are more likely than others to put their fingers or other items into their mouths.
It is important to wash hands immediately after touching poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam, because the germs on your hands can easily spread to other people or things.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a disease that often can be prevented.
What research is being done for Paresthesia?
The NINDS supports research on disorders of the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nerves that can cause paresthesia.
The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
What is Sleep deficiency?
Sleep deficiency is a common public health problem in the United States.
Is there any treatment for Angelman Syndrome?
There is no specific therapy for Angelman syndrome.
Medical therapy for seizures is usually necessary.
Physical and occupational therapies, communication therapy, and behavioral therapies are important in allowing individuals with Angelman syndrome to reach their maximum developmental potential.
What research is being done for Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus?
The NINDS conducts and supports research on neurological disorders, including normal pressure hydrocephalus.
Research on disorders such as normal pressure hydrocephalus focuses on increasing knowledge and understanding of the disorder, improving diagnostic techniques and neuroimaging, and finding improved treatments and preventions.
Is there any treatment for Transverse Myelitis?
No effective cure currently exists for people with transverse myelitis.
Physicians often prescribe corticosteroid therapy during the first few weeks of illness to decrease inflammation.
Following initial therapy, the most critical part of the treatment for this disorder consists of keeping the patient's body functioning while hoping for either complete or partial spontaneous recovery of the nervous system.
If an individual begins to recover limb control, physical therapy begins to help improve muscle strength, coordination, and range of motion.
How Much Alcohol is Dangerous?
There is no known safe amount of alcohol to drink while pregnant.
What Causes Scoliosis?
Structural scoliosis.
A fixed curve that doctors treat case by case.
Sometimes structural scoliosis is one part of a syndrome or disease, such as Marfan syndrome, an inherited connective tissue disorder.
In other cases, it occurs by itself.
Structural scoliosis can be caused by neuromuscular diseases such as cerebral palsy, poliomyelitis, or muscular dystrophy, birth defects such as hemivertebra, in which one side of a vertebra fails to form normally before birth, injury, certain infections, tumors such as those caused by neurofibromatosis, a birth defect sometimes associated with benign tumors on the spinal column, metabolic diseases, connective tissue disorders, rheumatic diseases, or unknown factors idiopathic scoliosis.
What accounts for the increase in the number of people in the United States hospitalized for seasonal influenza each year?
The range of illnesses analyzed in the newer study is broader than in the previous study.
The more recent study includes respiratory and heart diseases associated with influenza infections.
The earlier CDC study published in 2000 only analyzed pneumonia and influenza hospitalizations.
When analyses were restricted only to pneumonia and influenza hospitalizations, however, there was still an increase in hospitalizations.
What is Secondhand Smoke?
Secondhand smoke is a mixture of gases and fine particles.
It includes smoke from the burning end of cigarettes and the smoke exhaled by smokers.
Tobacco smoke contains a deadly mix of more than 7,000 chemicals.
Hundreds of these chemicals are toxic and about 70 can cause cancer.
Secondhand smoke causes immediate harm and hurts anyone who breathes it.
There is NO safe amount of secondhand smoke.
Breathing even a little secondhand smoke can be dangerous.
What is Sexual assault?
Sexual assault is a particular problem on college campuses.
What is Heart failure?
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs.
What is organ rejection?
Rejection occurs when your immune system attacks the new liver.
After a transplant, it is common for your immune system to try to destroy the new liver.
What is the prognosis for Paroxysmal Choreoathetosis?
Generally, paroxysmal choreoathetosis lessens with age, and many adults have a complete remission.
Because drug therapy is so effective, the prognosis for the disorder is good.
What are the signs and symptoms?
Symptoms typically begin between the ages of 5 and 15 years, although they sometimes appear in adulthood and on rare occasions as late as age 75.
The first symptom to appear is usually gait ataxia, or difficulty walking.
The ataxia gradually worsens and slowly spreads to the arms and the trunk.
There is often loss of sensation in the extremities, which may spread to other parts of the body.
Other features include loss of tendon reflexes, especially in the knees and ankles.
Most people with Friedreich's ataxia develop scoliosis a curving of the spine to one side, which often requires surgical intervention for treatment.
What research is being done for Monomelic Amyotrophy?
The NINDS conducts and supports a broad range of research on motor neuron diseases.
The goals of these studies are to increase understanding of these disorders and to find ways to treat, prevent, and ultimately cure them.
What are the different types of hydrocephalus?
Hydrocephalus may be congenital or acquired.
Congenital hydrocephalus is present at birth and may be caused by either events or influences that occur during fetal development, or genetic abnormalities.
Acquired hydrocephalus develops at the time of birth or at some point afterward.
This type of hydrocephalus can affect individuals of all ages and may be caused by injury or disease.
Hydrocephalus may also be communicating or non-communicating.
Communicating hydrocephalus occurs when the flow of CSF is blocked after it exits the ventricles.
This form is called communicating because the CSF can still flow between the ventricles, which remain open.
Non-communicating hydrocephalus - also called obstructive hydrocephalus - occurs when the flow of CSF is blocked along one or more of the narrow passages connecting the ventricles.
One of the most common causes of hydrocephalus is aqueductal stenosis.
In this case, hydrocephalus results from a narrowing of the aqueduct of Sylvius, a small passage between the third and fourth ventricles in the middle of the brain.
What research is being done for Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome?
The NINDS conducts and supports a broad program of basic and clinical research on epilepsy including Lennox-Gastaut syndrome.
These studies are aimed at finding the causes of these disorders, improving the diagnosis, and developing new medications and other therapies.
What causes peptic ulcers?
A bacterium called Helicobacter pylori H.
pylori is a major cause of peptic ulcers.
H.
pylori-induced ulcers often occur in the duodenum.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs NSAIDs, such as aspirin and ibuprofen, are another common cause.
Ulcers caused by NSAID use frequently appear in the stomach.
Rarely, cancerous or noncancerous tumors in the stomach, duodenum, or pancreas cause ulcers.
How Is Coronary Microvascular Disease Diagnosed?
Your doctor may ask you to describe any chest pain, including when it started and how it changed during physical activity or periods of stress.
He or she also may ask about other symptoms, such as fatigue tiredness, lack of energy, and shortness of breath.
Women may be asked about their menopausal status.
What Treatments Are Available?
The term heritable disorders of connective tissue refers to a wide range of disorders, each requiring a specific program for management and treatment.
In most instances, regular monitoring is important to assess, for example, the diameter of the aorta in people with Marfan syndrome, the extent of scoliosis spine curvature in people with osteogenesis imperfecta and those with some forms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and whether there is protrusion of the spine into the base of the skull in people with osteogenesis imperfecta.
For some conditions, specific metabolic treatment is useful, for example, vitamin B6 in people with homocystinuria, a metabolic disorder resulting from a liver enzyme deficiency.
In others, drugs like beta-blockers are useful for slowing the dilation of the aorta, and bone-building drugs called bisphosphonates may be help strengthen fragile bones.
Maintaining general health though a nutritious diet, exercise, and healthy lifestyle habits is also important for people with all heritable disorders of connective tissue.
Who gets back pain?
Most people have back pain at some point in their lives.
It's one of the most common reasons people visit the doctor or nurse.
People are more likely to experience back pain as they get older.
What is the prognosis for these diseases?
The prognosis for polymyositis varies.
Most individuals respond fairly well to therapy, but some patients have a more severe disease that does not respond adequately to therapies and are left with significant disability.
In rare cases people with severe and progressive muscle weakness can have respiratory failure or pneumonia.
Difficulty swallowing can lead to becoming malnourished.
Falls leading to fractures particularly of the hip should be guarded against because of the high rate of disability or death that can result.
How can carpal tunnel syndrome be prevented?
At the workplace, workers can do on-the-job conditioning, perform stretching exercises, take frequent rest breaks, wear splints to keep wrists straight, and use correct posture and wrist position.
Wearing fingerless gloves can help keep hands warm and flexible.
Workstations, tools and tool handles, and tasks can be redesigned to enable the worker's wrist to maintain a natural position during work.
Jobs can be rotated among workers.
Employers can develop programs in ergonomics, the process of adapting workplace conditions and job demands to the capabilities of workers.
However, research has not conclusively shown that these workplace changes prevent the occurrence of carpal tunnel syndrome.
What is the prognosis for Fahr's Syndrome?
The prognosis for any individual with Fahr's Syndrome is variable and hard to predict.
There is no reliable correlation between age, extent of calcium deposits in the brain, and neurological deficit.
Since the appearance of calcification is age-dependent, a CT scan could be negative in a gene carrier who is younger than the age of 55.
What is A mechanical problem?
A mechanical problem is a problem with the way your spine moves or the way you feel when you move your spine in certain ways.
How is porphyria diagnosed?
A health care provider diagnoses porphyria with blood, urine, and stool tests.
These tests take place at a health care provider's office or a commercial facility.
A blood test involves drawing blood and sending the sample to a lab for analysis.
For urine and stool tests, the patient collects a sample of urine or stool in a special container.
A health care provider tests the samples in the office or sends them to a lab for analysis.
High levels of porphyrins or porphyrin precursors in blood, urine, or stool indicate porphyria.
A health care provider may also recommend DNA testing of a blood sample to look for known gene mutations that cause porphyrias.
Where can I learn more?
Talk to your child's doctor or nurse to learn more about MCV4 and the other vaccines that your child may need.
You can also find out more about these vaccines on CDC's Vaccines for Preteens and Teens website.
Is there any treatment for Infantile Neuroaxonal Dystrophy?
There is no cure for INAD and no treatment that can stop the progress of the disease.
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
Doctors can prescribe medications for pain relief and sedation.
Physiotherapists and other physical therapists can teach parents and caregivers how to position and seat their child, and to exercise arms and legs to maintain comfort.
What is Pertuzumab Pertuzumab?
Pertuzumab Pertuzumab is a humanized, monoclonal antibody that binds to a different epitope at the HER2 extracellular domain than trastuzumab.
What research is being done for Moyamoya Disease?
The NINDS conducts neurological research in laboratories at the NIH and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
These studies, which range from clinical trials to investigations of basic biological mechanisms, are aimed at discovering how and why diseases develop in the brain, and focus on finding ways to prevent, treat, or cure them.
What should you expect after Thoracentesis?
After thoracentesis, you may have a chest x ray to check for any lung problems.
Your blood pressure and breathing will be checked for up to a few hours after the procedure.
This is done to make sure you don't have complications.
What Types of Exercise Are Most Suitable for Someone With a Total Hip Replacement?
Proper exercise can reduce stiffness and increase flexibility and muscle strength.
People who have an artificial hip should talk to their doctor or physical therapist about developing an appropriate exercise program.
Most of these programs begin with safe range-of-motion activities and muscle-strengthening exercises.
The doctor or therapist will decide when you can move on to more demanding activities.
Many doctors recommend avoiding high-impact activities, such as basketball, jogging, and tennis.
These activities can damage the new hip or cause loosening of its parts.
Some recommended exercises are walking, stationary bicycling, swimming, and cross-country skiing.
These exercises can increase muscle strength and cardiovascular fitness without injuring the new hip.
What is the treatment for hepatitis C?
If acute hepatitis C does not resolve on its own within 2 to 3 months, drug treatment is recommended.
What Causes High Blood Pressure?
Women taking birth control pills usually have a small rise in both systolic and diastolic blood pressures.
If you already have HBP and want to use birth control pills, make sure your doctor knows about your HBP.
Talk with him or her about how often you should have your blood pressure checked and how to control it while taking the pill.
How much muscle-strengthening activity do I need each week?
Be sure to strengthen all major muscle groups including the legs, hips, back, chest, stomach, shoulders, and arms.
Do these activities to the point where it's hard for you to do more without help.
If you can, do several sets of each exercise.
What is relationship violence?
When many people think about relationship violence, they think about physical violence, like hitting or pushing.
But people can use other methods to control their partners, like threats or insults.
How Is Paget's Disease of Bone Diagnosed?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33577029.xml:
What causes transverse myelitis?
In some people, transverse myeltis represents the first symptom of an underlying demyelinating disease of the central nervous system such as multiple sclerosis MS or neuromyelitis optica NMO.
A form of transverse myelitis known as partial myelitis--because it affects only a portion of the cross-sectional area of the spinal cord--is more characteristic of MS.
Neuromyelitis optica typically causes both transverse myelitis and optic neuritis inflammation of the optic nerve that results in visual loss, but not necessarily at the same time.
All patients with transverse myelitis should be evaluated for MS or NMO because patients with these diagnoses may require different treatments, especially therapies to prevent future attacks.
How do flu vaccines work?
The seasonal flu vaccine protects against three influenza viruses that research indicates will be most common during the upcoming season.
This season's flu vaccine provides protection against the three main viruses that research indicates will cause the most illness this season -- an influenza A H1N1 virus, an influenza A H3N2 virus and an influenza B virus.
About 2 weeks after vaccination, antibodies that provide protection against influenza virus infection develop in the body.
What is Stable angina?
Stable angina is the most common type of angina.
What is Meralgia Paresthetica?
Meralgia paresthetica is a disorder characterized by tingling, numbness, and burning pain in the outer side of the thigh.
The disorder is caused by compression of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve, a sensory nerve to the skin, as it exits the pelvis.
People with the disorder often notice a patch of skin that is sensitive to touch and sometimes painful.
Meralgia paresthetica should not be associated with weakness or radiating pain from the back.
What is Echocardiography echo?
Echocardiography echo is the most useful test for diagnosing MVP.
What is the prognosis for these infections?
Individuals who experience only headache, fever, and stiff neck may recover in 2-4 weeks.
Those with bacterial meningitis typically show some relief 48-72 hours following initial treatment but are more likely to experience complications caused by the disease.
In more serious cases, these diseases can cause hearing and/or speech loss, blindness, permanent brain and nerve damage, behavioral changes, cognitive disabilities, lack of muscle control, seizures, and memory loss.
These patients may need long-term therapy, medication, and supportive care.
The recovery from encephalitis is variable depending on the cause and extent of brain inflammation.
How is GERD diagnosed in children and adolescents?
Lifestyle changes and medications are often the first lines of treatment for suspected GERD.
If symptoms improve with these treatment methods, a GERD diagnosis for a child or an adolescent often does not require testing.
However, to confirm a diagnosis, a child or an adolescent may need testing if symptoms do not improve.
Children and adolescents with possible GERD who have trouble swallowing also may require testing.
What do People With Rheumatoid Arthriti Need to Know About Osteoporosi?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33578426.xml:
What does Stage IV refers to disease that refer to?
Stage IV refers to disease that is diffusely spread throughout an extranodal site, such as the liver.
What is A blood transfusion?
A blood transfusion is a safe, common procedure.
Should I take any precautions before becoming more active?
People with chronic diseases, such as a heart condition, arthritis, diabetes, or high blood pressure, should talk to their doctor about what types and amounts of physical activity are appropriate.
What is Hematocrit hee-MAT-oh-crit?
Hematocrit hee-MAT-oh-crit is a measure of how much space red blood cells take up in your blood.
Why is physical activity important?
When losing weight, more physical activity increases the number of calories your body uses for energy or burns off.
The burning of calories through physical activity, combined with reducing the number of calories you eat, creates a calorie deficit that results in weight loss.
What is Medicine usually?
Medicine usually is the first line of treatment for arrhythmias.
Q.
What other factors contribute to overweight and obesity?
A: Besides diet and behavior, environment, and genetic factors may also have an effect in causing people to be overweight and obese.
For more, see Other Factors in Weight Gain Other Factors in Weight Gain.
What is Diagnosis based on?
Diagnosis is made based on the clinical symptoms of the disease, as well as characteristic brain abnormalities that can be seen in an MRI brain scan.
What research is being done for Metachromatic Leukodystrophy?
A combination of gene therapy and transplantation of the patient's own bone marrow cells is currently ongoing in Europe and being discussed the the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration in the United States.
A trial of Arylysulfatase A has been completed in late infantile MLD in the United States and results are not yet published.
What is the right way to wash your hands?
Lather your hands by rubbing them together with the soap.
Be sure to lather the backs of your hands, between your fingers, and under your nails.
How are these syndromes diagnosed?
However, the diagnosis of vasculitis often requires evidence that there is ongoing inflammation.
Inflammatory cells may be found in the spinal fluid.
Often there is a need to conduct a tissue biopsy to examine blood vessels under a microscope.
In some cases a brain biopsy may be necessary to evaluate the compromised tissue.
A definitive diagnosis is important because the treatment usually requires powerful immune-suppressive drugs.
In addition, it is important to make sure that an infection is not causing the inflammation.
What Causes Sarcoidosis?
These cells release chemicals that recruit other cells to isolate and destroy the harmful substance.
Inflammation occurs during this process.
Once the harmful substance is gone, the cells and the inflammation go away.
What is Physical activity?
Physical activity is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
What is Corticobasal degeneration?
Corticobasal degeneration is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by nerve cell loss and atrophy shrinkage of multiple areas of the brain including the cerebral cortex and the basal ganglia.
Am I in Caloric Balance?
To learn how many calories you are currently eating, begin writing down the foods you eat and the beverages you drink each day.
By writing down what you eat and drink, you become more aware of everything you are putting in your mouth.
Also, begin writing down the physical activity you do each day and the length of time you do it.
Here are simple paper and pencil tools to assist you:
Why is the discovery of bat influenza important for public health?
The discovery of bat influenza is important for public health because bats represent a new animal species that may act as a source of influenza viruses.
Influenza viruses are already known to cause disease and spread in other animals, including domestic and wild birds, pigs, horses, and dogs, with sporadic outbreaks in seals, whales, ferrets and cats.
CDC and disease experts around the world monitor influenza viruses that circulate in animals because the previous pandemics of the 20th century as well as the 2009 H1N1 pandemic were caused by influenza viruses in animals that gained the ability to infect and spread easily in humans.
What is Broken heart syndrome?
Broken heart syndrome is a recently recognized heart problem.
What is Arterial circulation?
Arterial circulation is the part of your circulatory system that involves arteries, like the aorta and pulmonary arteries.
How Is Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia Diagnosed?
If your primary care doctor thinks that you may have PCD or another lung disorder, he or she may refer you to a pulmonologist.
This is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating lung diseases and conditions.
What Research is Being Done?
Although HD attracted considerable attention from scientists in the early 20th century, there was little sustained research on the disease until the late 1960s when the Committee to Combat Huntington's Disease and the Huntington's Chorea Foundation, later called the Hereditary Disease Foundation, first began to fund research and to campaign for federal funding.
In 1977, Congress established the Commission for the Control of Huntington's Disease and Its Consequences, which made a series of important recommendations.
Since then, Congress has provided consistent support for federal research, primarily through the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, the government's lead agency for biomedical research on disorders of the brain and nervous system.
The effort to combat HD proceeds along the following lines of inquiry, each providing important information about the disease:
What is Occipital neuralgia?
Occipital neuralgia is a distinct type of headache characterized by piercing, throbbing, or electric-shock-like chronic pain in the upper neck, back of the head, and behind the ears, usually on one side of the head.
What causes syringomyelia?
A number of medical conditions can cause an obstruction in the normal flow of CSF, redirecting excess fluid into the spinal cord and central canal.
This redirected CSF accumulates within the tissue of the spinal cord and forms a fluid-filled syrinx.
Pressure differences along the spine cause the fluid to move within the syrinx and outside the spinal cord.
Physicians believe that this continual movement of fluid in and around the spinal cord results in cyst growth and further damage to the spinal cord tissue.
What is Lactose intolerance?
Lactose intolerance is a common problem.
Is there any treatment for Tremor?
There is no cure for most tremors.
The appropriate treatment depends on accurate diagnosis of the cause.
Drug treatment for parkinsonian tremor involves levodopa or dopamine-like drugs such as pramipexole and ropinirole.
Essential tremor may be treated with propranolol or other beta blockers such as nadolol and primidone, an anticonvulsant drug.
Dystonic tremor may respond to clonazepam, anticholinergic drugs, and intramuscular injections of botulinum toxin.
Eliminating tremor triggers such as caffeine and other stimulants from the diet is often recommended.
Physical therapy may help to reduce tremor and improve coordination and muscle control for some individuals.
Surgical intervention, such as thalamotomy and deep brain stimulation, are usually performed only when the tremor is severe and does not respond to drugs.
What is Constipation?
Constipation is a condition in which a person has fewer than three bowel movements a week or has bowel movements with stools that are hard, dry, and small, making them painful or difficult to pass.
What Does Chest MRI Show?
The pictures from chest MRI may show a tumor, problems in the blood vessels such as an aneurysm or blood clot, abnormal lymph nodes, or another chest condition such as a pleural disorder.
What is Spasticity?
Spasticity is a condition in which there is an abnormal increase in muscle tone or stiffness of muscle, which might interfere with movement, speech, or be associated with discomfort or pain.
Spasticity is usually caused by damage to nerve pathways within the brain or spinal cord that control muscle movement.
It may occur in association with spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis, cerebral palsy, stroke, brain or head trauma, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, hereditary spastic paraplegias, and metabolic diseases such as adrenoleukodystrophy, phenylketonuria, and Krabbe disease.
Symptoms may include hypertonicity increased muscle tone, clonus a series of rapid muscle contractions, exaggerated deep tendon reflexes, muscle spasms, scissoring involuntary crossing of the legs, and fixed joints contractures.
The degree of spasticity varies from mild muscle stiffness to severe, painful, and uncontrollable muscle spasms.
Spasticity can interfere with rehabilitation in patients with certain disorders, and often interferes with daily activities.
Who Is at Risk for Atelectasis?
Lung conditions and other medical disorders that affect your ability to breathe deeply or cough.
Examples include respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia, lung cancer, and neuromuscular diseases.
Rarely, asthma, COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and cystic fibrosis are associated with atelectasis.
Is there any treatment for Locked-In Syndrome?
There is no cure for locked-in syndrome, nor is there a standard course of treatment.
A therapy called functional neuromuscular stimulation, which uses electrodes to stimulate muscle reflexes, may help activate some paralyzed muscles.
Several devices to help communication are available.
Other treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
What is Bevacizumab Bevacizumab?
Bevacizumab Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against all isoforms of vascular endothelial growth factor-A.
What are the types of myoclonus?
Progressive myoclonus epilepsy PME is a group of diseases characterized by myoclonus, epileptic seizures, and other serious symptoms such as trouble walking or speaking.
These rare disorders often get worse over time and sometimes are fatal.
Studies have identified many forms of PME.
Lafora body disease is inherited as an autosomal recessive disorder, meaning that the disease occurs only when a child inherits two copies of a defective gene, one from each parent.
Lafora body disease is characterized by myoclonus, epileptic seizures, and dementia progressive loss of memory and other intellectual functions.
A second group of PME diseases belonging to the class of cerebral storage diseases usually involves myoclonus, visual problems, dementia, and dystonia sustained muscle contractions that cause twisting movements or abnormal postures.
Another group of PME disorders in the class of system degenerations often is accompanied by action myoclonus, seizures, and problems with balance and walking.
Many of these PME diseases begin in childhood or adolescence.
Does the report provide a blueprint for bioterrorists to develop and unleash a devastating pandemic on the world?
No.
This report does not provide the blueprint for bioterrorist to develop a pandemic influenza strain.
The reverse genetics system that was used to generate the 1918 virus is a widely used laboratory technique.
While there are concerns that this approach could potentially be misused for purposes of bioterrorism, there are also clear and significant potential benefits of sharing this information with the scientific community: namely, facilitating the development of effective interventions, thereby strengthening public health and national security.
What is pre-diabetes?
Pre-diabetes means the amount of glucose in your blood is higher than normal.
If you have pre-diabetes, you are at risk for serious health problems, like type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and stroke.
Find out more about pre-diabetes.
What are the specific actions I can take to reduce my risk of aSalmonella infection from eggs?
Wash hands and all food contact surface areas counter tops, utensils, dishes, and cutting boards with soap and water after contact with raw eggs.
Then disinfect the food contact surfaces using a sanitizing agent, such as bleach, following label instructions.
How is the the intradermal vaccine similar to the other licensed flu vaccines?
The intradermal flu vaccine has a similar safety profile to the regular Fluzone flu shot.
Like all trivalent flu vaccines, the intradermal vaccine is made to protect against three flu viruses that research suggests will be most common for the season.
The intradermal flu vaccine works in the body in the same way as a regular flu shot.
Is there any treatment for Hypotonia?
Treatment begins with a thorough diagnostic evaluation, usually performed by a neurologist, including an assessment of motor and sensory skills, balance and coordination, mental status, reflexes, and functioning of the nerves.
Diagnostic tests that may be helpful include a CT or MRI scan of the brain, an EMG to evaluate nerve and muscle function, or an EEG to measure electrical activity in the brain.
Once a diagnosis has been made, the underlying condition is treated first, followed by symptomatic and supportive therapy for the hypotonia.
Physical therapy can improve fine motor control and overall body strength.
Occupational and speech-language therapy can help breathing, speech, and swallowing difficulties.
Therapy for infants and young children may also include sensory stimulation programs.
What is Schilder's Disease?
Schilder's disease is a rare progressive demyelinating disorder which usually begins in childhood.
Schilder's disease is not the same as Addison-Schilder disease adrenoleukodystrophy.
Symptoms may include dementia, aphasia, seizures, personality changes, poor attention, tremors, balance instability, incontinence, muscle weakness, headache, vomiting, and vision and speech impairment.
The disorder is a variant of multiple sclerosis.
What is Landau-Kleffner Syndrome?
Landau-Kleffner syndrome LKS is a rare, childhood neurological disorder characterized by the sudden or gradual development of aphasia the inability to understand or express language and an abnormal electro-encephalogram EEG.
LKS affects the parts of the brain that control comprehension and speech.
The disorder usually occurs in children between the ages of 5 and 7 years.
Typically, children with LKS develop normally but then lose their language skills for no apparent reason.
While many of the affected individuals have seizures, some do not.
The disorder is difficult to diagnose and may be misdiagnosed as autism, pervasive developmental disorder, hearing impairment, learning disability, auditory/verbal processing disorder, attention deficit disorder, mental retardation, childhood schizophrenia, or emotional/behavioral problems.
Is there any treatment for Spina Bifida?
There is no cure for SB because the nerve tissue cannot be replaced or repaired.
Treatment for the variety of effects of SB may include surgery, medication, and physiotherapy.
Many individuals with SB will need assistive devices such as braces, crutches, or wheelchairs.
Ongoing therapy, medical care, and/or surgical treatments may be necessary to prevent and manage complications throughout the individual's life.
Surgery to close the newborn's spinal opening is generally performed within 24 hours after birth to minimize the risk of infection and to preserve existing function in the spinal cord.
What is Epidemiology?
Epidemiology is the study of the origin and causes of diseases in a community.
What Is Narcolepsy?
Cataplexy KAT-ah-plek-se.
This condition causes a sudden loss of muscle tone while you're awake.
Muscle weakness can affect certain parts of your body or your whole body.
For example, if cataplexy affects your hand, you may drop what you're holding.
Strong emotions often trigger this weakness.
It may last seconds or minutes.
How Is Aplastic Anemia Treated?
Treatments for aplastic anemia include blood transfusions, blood and marrow stem cell transplants, and medicines.
These treatments can prevent or limit complications, relieve symptoms, and improve quality of life.
How Is Cough Treated?
The best way to treat a cough is to treat its cause.
However, sometimes the cause is unknown.
Other treatments, such as medicines and a vaporizer, can help relieve the cough itself.
What is Restless legs syndrome RLS?
Restless legs syndrome RLS is a neurological disorder characterized by unpleasant sensations in the legs and an uncontrollable, and sometimes overwhelming, urge to move them for relief.
What is Takayasu's arteritis?
Takayasu's arteritis is a systemic disease.
What is CDC doing about congenital heart defects?
Research: CDC coordinates the largest population-based effort in the United States to identify the causes of birth defects, the National Birth Defects Prevention Study.
Population-based studies like this one look at the occurrence of disease across a wide group of people, which is important to make sure that study results are applicable to people living in the United States.
This study has identified some important risk factors for congenital heart defects.
For example, women who are obese when they become pregnant are more likely to have a baby with a congenital heart defect.
What is Heat stroke?
Heat stroke is the most serious heat-related disorder.
What research is being done for Hypotonia?
The NINDS supports research on conditions that can result from neurological disorders, such as hypotonia.
Much of this research is aimed at learning more about these conditions and finding ways to prevent and treat them.
How is PSC treated?
Although researchers have studied many treatments, none has been shown to cure or slow the progress of PSC.
Treatment of PSC aims to relieve symptoms and manage complications.
Medical treatment may include various medications to relieve itching, antibiotics to treat infections, and vitamin supplements.
Instruments passed through an endoscope during ERCP can help open blocked bile ducts.
How Does an Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator Work?
The wires on an ICD connect to a small metal box implanted in your chest or abdomen.
The box contains a battery, pulse generator, and small computer.
When the computer detects irregular heartbeats, it triggers the ICD's pulse generator to send electrical pulses.
Wires carry these pulses to the heart.
What research is being done for Alzheimer's Disease?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS supports basic and translational research related to AD through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Current studies are investigating how the development of beta amyloid plaques damages neurons, and how abnormalities in tau proteins create the characteristic neurofibrillary tangles of AD.
Other research is exploring the impact of risk factors associated with the development of AD, such as pre-existing problems with blood flow in the blood vessels of the brain.
Most importantly, the NINDS supports a number of studies that are developing and testing new and novel therapies that can relieve the symptoms of AD and potentially lead to a cure.
Who Is at Risk for Hemolytic Anemia?
For example, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase G6PD deficiency mostly affects males of African or Mediterranean descent.
In the United States, the condition is more common among African Americans than Caucasians.
Who Can Be a GBS Carrier?
GBS bacteria are commonly found in healthy women of all races and ethnicities.
In fact, about 1 in 4 women in the United States carry these bacteria.
What is Hormone therapy?
Hormone therapy is a cancer treatment that removes hormones or blocks their action and stops cancer cells from growing.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis often can be prevented.
It is known as a silent disease because, if undetected, bone loss can progress for many years without symptoms until a fracture occurs.
Osteoporosis has been called a childhood disease with old age consequences because building healthy bones in youth helps prevent osteoporosis and fractures later in life.
However, it is never too late to adopt new habits for healthy bones.
What is Atherosclerosis?
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque builds up inside your arteries.
How is hepatitis C spread?
Hepatitis C is spread primarily through contact with infected blood.
Less commonly, it can spread through sexual contact and childbirth.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
What if we stopped vaccinating for this disease?
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia?
A first sign of BPD is when premature infants - usually those born more than 10 weeks early - still need oxygen therapy by the time they reach their original due dates.
These babies are diagnosed with BPD.
What is Tay-Sachs Disease?
Infants with Tay-Sachs disease appear to develop normally for the first few months of life.
Then, as nerve cells become distended with fatty material, a relentless deterioration of mental and physical abilities occurs.
The child becomes blind, deaf, and unable to swallow.
Muscles begin to atrophy and paralysis sets in.
Other neurological symptoms include dementia, seizures, and an increased startle reflex to noise.
A much rarer form of the disorder occurs in patients in their twenties and early thirties and is characterized by an unsteady gait and progressive neurological deterioration.
Persons with Tay-Sachs also have cherry-red spots in their eyes.
The incidence of Tay-Sachs is particularly high among people of Eastern European and Askhenazi Jewish descent.
Patients and carriers of Tay-Sachs disease can be identified by a simple blood test that measures beta-hexosaminidase A activity.
Both parents must carry the mutated gene in order to have an affected child.
In these instances, there is a 25 percent chance with each pregnancy that the child will be affected with Tay-Sachs disease.
Prenatal diagnosis is available if desired.
How is blood pressure measured?
Two numbers e.g., 140/90 help determine blood pressure.
The first number measures systolic pressure, which is the pressure in the blood vessels when the heart beats.
The second number measures diastolic pressure, which is the pressure in the blood vessels when the heart rests between beats.
If the first number is 140 or higher, or the second number is 90 or higher then you have high blood pressure and should talk to your health care provider.
What should you expect before Heart Surgery?
Some people carefully plan their surgeries with their doctors.
They know exactly when and how their surgeries will happen.
Other people need emergency heart surgery.
For example, they might be diagnosed with blocked coronary arteries and admitted to the hospital right away for surgery.
What should you expect during Catheter Ablation?
Catheter ablation is done in a hospital.
Doctors who do this procedure have special training in cardiac electrophysiology the heart's electrical system and ablation destruction of diseased heart tissue.
Is there any treatment for Mucolipidoses?
No cures or specific therapies for ML currently exists.
Therapies are generally geared toward treating symptoms and providing supportive care to the child.
For individuals with corneal clouding, surgery to remove the thin layer over the eye has been shown to reduce the cloudiness in the eye.
However, this improvement may be only temporary.
Physical and occupational therapy may help children with motor delays.
Children with language delays may benefit from speech therapy.
Children at risk for failure to thrive growth failure may need nutritional supplements, especially iron and vitamin B12 for patients with ML IV.
Respiratory infections should be treated immediately and fully with antibiotics.
What is Obstructive sleep apnea?
Obstructive sleep apnea is a common condition.
How is Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease diagnosed?
Diagnosis of CMT begins with a standard medical history, family history, and neurological examination.
Individuals will be asked about the nature and duration of their symptoms and whether other family members have the disease.
During the neurological examination a physician will look for evidence of muscle weakness in the individual's arms, legs, hands, and feet, decreased muscle bulk, reduced tendon reflexes, and sensory loss.
Doctors look for evidence of foot deformities, such as high arches, hammertoes, inverted heel, or flat feet.
Other orthopedic problems, such as mild scoliosis or hip dysplasia, may also be present.
A specific sign that may be found in people with CMT1 is nerve enlargement that may be felt or even seen through the skin.
These enlarged nerves, called hypertrophic nerves, are caused by abnormally thickened myelin sheaths.
Is there any treatment for Migraine?
There is no absolute cure for migraine since its pathophysiology has yet to be fully understood.
There are two ways to approach the treatment of migraine headache with drugs: prevent the attacks, or relieve the symptoms during the attacks.
Prevention involves the use of medications and behavioral changes.
Drugs originally developed for epilepsy, depression, or high blood pressure to prevent future attacks have been shown to be extremely effective in treating migraine.
Botulinum toxin A has been shown to be effective in prevention of chronic migraine.
Behaviorally, stress management strategies, such as exercise, relaxation techniques, biofeedback mechanisms, and other therapies designed to limit daily discomfort, may reduce the number and severity of migraine attacks.
Making a log of personal triggers of migraine can also provide useful information for trigger-avoiding lifestyle changes, including dietary considerations, eating regularly scheduled meals with adequate hydration, stopping certain medications, and establishing a consistent sleep schedule.
Hormone therapy may help some women whose migraines seem to be linked to their menstrual cycle.
A weight loss program is recommended for obese individuals with migraine.
What is Myasthenia gravis?
Myasthenia gravis is a chronic autoimmune neuromuscular disease characterized by varying degrees of weakness of the skeletal voluntary muscles of the body.
Q: If I eat late at night, will these calories automatically turn into body fat?
A: The time of day isn't what affects how your body uses calories.
It's the overall number of calories you eat and the calories you burn over the course of 24 hours that affects your weight.
Who Is at Risk for Metabolic Syndrome?
Some people are at risk for metabolic syndrome because they take medicines that cause weight gain or changes in blood pressure, blood cholesterol, and blood sugar levels.
What Is Osteogenesis Imperfecta?
Osteogenesis imperfecta OI is a genetic disorder characterized by bones that break easily, often from little or no apparent trauma.
OI is highly variable, and signs and symptoms range from mild to severe.
In addition to broken bones, people with OI sometimes have muscle weakness or joint laxity loose joints, and they often have skeletal malformations including short stature, scoliosis curvature of the spine, and bowing of long bones.
A classification system featuring different types of OI is commonly used to help describe how severely a person with OI is affected.
OI occurs with equal frequency in males and females and among all ethnic and racial groups.
Am I at risk for a vision problem?
Your chance of developing a vision problem increases as you get older.
And you may be at higher risk if one of your parents had a vision problem, like needing to wear glasses.
Cute but risky?
Live baby poultry can carry Salmonella and still look healthy, but can spread the germs to people.
Children can be exposed to Salmonella by holding, cuddling, or kissing the birds and by touching things where the bird lives, such as cages or feed and water bowls.
Young children are especially at risk for illness because their immune systems are still developing and because they are more likely than others to put their fingers or other items into their mouths.
What are the side effects that could occur?
In studies, common reactions to the intradermal flu shot included redness, swelling, toughness, pain, and itching at the injection site.
With the exception of pain, these side effects were more common with the intradermal shot than they are with regular flu shots.
Other side effects included headache, muscle ache, and tiredness.
These symptoms usually go away within 3 to 7 days.
What is A myopathy?
A myopathy is a disorder of the muscles that usually results in weakness.
What is Moebius Syndrome?
Moebius syndrome is a rare birth defect caused by the absence or underdevelopment of the 6th and 7th cranial nerves, which control eye movements and facial expression.
Many of the other cranial nerves may also be affected, including the 3rd, 5th, 8th, 9th, 11th and 12th.
The first symptom, present at birth, is an inability to suck.
Other symptoms can include: feeding, swallowing, and choking problems; excessive drooling; crossed eyes; lack of facial expression; inability to smile; eye sensitivity; motor delays; high or cleft palate; hearing problems and speech difficulties.
Children with Moebius syndrome are unable to move their eyes back and forth.
Decreased numbers of muscle fibers have been reported.
Deformities of the tongue, jaw, and limbs, such as clubfoot and missing or webbed fingers, may also occur.
As children get older, lack of facial expression and inability to smile become the dominant visible symptoms.
Approximately 30 to 40 percent of children with Moebius syndrome have some degree of autism.
Is there any treatment for Headache?
When headaches occur three or more times a month, preventive treatment is usually recommended.
Drug therapy, biofeedback training, stress reduction, and elimination of certain foods from the diet are the most common methods of preventing and controlling migraine and other vascular headaches.
Regular exercise, such as swimming or vigorous walking, can also reduce the frequency and severity of migraine headaches.
Drug therapy for migraine is often combined with biofeedback and relaxation training.
One of the most commonly used drugs for the relief of migraine symptoms is sumatriptan.
Drugs used to prevent migraine also include methysergide maleate, which counteracts blood vessel constriction; propranolol hydrochloride, which also reduces the frequency and severity of migraine headaches; ergotamine tartrate, a vasoconstrictor that helps counteract the painful dilation stage of the headache; amitriptyline, an antidepressant; valproic acid, an anticonvulsant; and verapamil, a calcium channel blocker.
What are the possible complications of a shunt system?
Shunt systems are imperfect devices.
Complications may include mechanical failure, infections, obstructions, and the need to lengthen or replace the catheter.
Generally, shunt systems require monitoring and regular medical follow up.
When complications occur, subsequent surgery to replace the failed part or the entire shunt system may be needed.
Some complications can lead to other problems such as overdraining or underdraining.
Overdraining occurs when the shunt allows CSF to drain from the ventricles more quickly than it is produced.
Overdraining can cause the ventricles to collapse, tearing blood vessels and causing headache, hemorrhage subdural hematoma, or slit-like ventricles slit ventricle syndrome.
Underdraining occurs when CSF is not removed quickly enough and the symptoms of hydrocephalus recur.
Overdrainage and underdrainage of CSF are addressed by adjusting the drainage pressure of the shunt valve; if the shunt has an adjustable pressure valve these changes can be made by placing a special magnet on the scalp over the valve.
In addition to the common symptoms of hydrocephalus, infections from a shunt may also produce symptoms such as a low-grade fever, soreness of the neck or shoulder muscles, and redness or tenderness along the shunt tract.
When there is reason to suspect that a shunt system is not functioning properly for example, if the symptoms of hydrocephalus return, medical attention should be sought immediately.
What is Vitamin A?
Vitamin A is a family of fat-soluble compounds that play an important role in vision, bone growth, reproduction, cell division, and cell differentiation.
How did my child get head lice?
Head-to-head contact with an already infested person is the most common way to get head lice.
Head-to-head contact is common during play at school, at home, and elsewhere sports activities, playground, slumber parties, camp.
What is Lymphoblastic lymphoma?
Lymphoblastic lymphoma is a very aggressive form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma NHL, which often occurs in young patients, but not exclusively.
Is there any treatment for Kearns-Sayre Syndrome?
There is currently no effective way to treat mitochondria abnormalities in KSS.
Treatment is generally symptomatic and supportive.
Management of KSS involves multiple specialties depending on the organs involved.
The most essential is a regular and long-term follow-up with cardiologists.
Conduction problems of heart impulse like heart block may be treated with a pacemaker.
Other consultations may include audiology, ophthalmology, endocrinology, neurology, and neuropsychiatry.
Hearing aids may be required.
There is typically no treatment for limitation in eye movement.
Endocrinology abnormalities can be treated with drugs.
How is CDC involved in monitoring mental illness?
On September 2, 2011, CDC released Mental Illness Surveillance Among Adults in the United States, an MMWR supplement that summarized current data from the above surveillance and information systems.
When do symptoms appear?
Symptoms, particularly the most common skin abnormalities-cafe-au-lait spots, neurofibromas, Lisch nodules, and freckling in the armpit and groin-are often evident at birth or shortly afterwards, and almost always by the time a child is 10 years old.
Because many features of these disorders are age dependent, a definitive diagnosis may take several years.
What is the prognosis for Hydromyelia?
Surgery may permanently or temporarily relieve symptoms, but it can also cause a number of severe complications.
In rare cases, hydromyelia may resolve on its own without any medical intervention.
What Is Hypotension?
Blood pressure is measured as systolic sis-TOL-ik and diastolic di-a-STOL-ik pressures.
Systolic refers to blood pressure when the heart beats while pumping blood.
Diastolic refers to blood pressure when the heart is at rest between beats.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
What is Lapatinib Lapatinib?
Lapatinib Lapatinib is a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is capable of dual-receptor inhibition of both epidermal growth factor receptor and HER2.
What is Deferasirox?
Deferasirox is a pill taken once daily.
How Can We Prevent Excessive Alcohol Consumption and Reduce Its Economic Costs?
Communities can use evidence-based strategies, such as those recommended by the Community Preventive Services Task Force to prevent excessive drinking.
These include:
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells.
What is Fluzone High-Dose influenza vaccine?
Fluzone High-Dose is an influenza vaccine, manufactured by Sanofi Pasteur Inc., designed specifically for people 65 years and older.
What Can I Do to Make My Bones Healthier?
Eat a well-balanced diet rich in calcium and vitamin D.
Good sources of calcium include low-fat dairy products, and foods and drinks with added calcium.
Good sources of vitamin D include egg yolks, saltwater fish, liver, and milk with vitamin D.
Some people may need to take nutritional supplements in order to get enough calcium and vitamin D.
The charts below show how much calcium and vitamin D you need each day.
Fruits and vegetables also contribute other nutrients that are important for bone health.
What is Muscular Dystrophy?
Duchenne MD is the most common form of MD and primarily affects boys.
It is caused by the absence of dystrophin, a protein involved in maintaining the integrity of muscle.
Onset is between 3 and 5 years and the disorder progresses rapidly.
Most boys are unable to walk by age 12, and later need a respirator to breathe.
Girls in these families have a 50 percent chance of inheriting and passing the defective gene to their children.
Boys with Becker MD very similar to but less severe than Duchenne MD have faulty or not enough dystrophin.
What are the symptoms of gas?
The most common symptoms of gas are burping, passing gas, bloating, and abdominal pain or discomfort.
However, not everyone experiences these symptoms.
How is Exercise testing used?
Exercise testing is used to find out the severity of PH.
What research is being done for Zellweger Syndrome?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH, conduct research exploring the molecular and genetic basis of Zellweger syndrome and the other PBDs, and also support additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as Zellweger syndrome.
How is the cause of bleeding in the digestive tract diagnosed?
To diagnose bleeding in the digestive tract, the health care provider will first determine the site of the bleeding based upon the following:
How is Broken Heart Syndrome Treated?
Initial treatment is aimed at improving blood flow to the heart, and may be similar to that for a heart attack until the diagnosis is clear.
Further treatment can include medicines and lifestyle changes.
WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF PARKINSON'S DISEASE?
Often, the first symptom of Parkinson's disease is tremor trembling or shaking of a limb, especially when the body is at rest.
The tremor often begins on one side of the body, frequently in one hand.
Other common symptoms include slow movement bradykinesia, an inability to move akinesia, rigid limbs, a shuffling gait, and a stooped posture.
People with Parkinson's disease often show reduced facial expressions and speak in a soft voice.
Occasionally, the disease also causes depression, personality changes, dementia, sleep disturbances, speech impairments, or sexual difficulties.
The severity of Parkinson's symptoms tends to worsen over time.
Want to learn more?
Links to healthy recipes with calorie counts and nutritional information.
What is A healthy diet?
A healthy diet is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
What makes a child prone to recurrent febrile seizures?
A few factors appear to boost a child's risk of having recurrent febrile seizures, including young age less than 15 months during the first seizure, frequent fevers, and having immediate family members with a history of febrile seizures.
If the seizure occurs soon after a fever has begun or when the temperature is relatively low, the risk of recurrence is higher.
A long initial febrile seizure does not substantially boost the risk of recurrent febrile seizures, either brief or long.
What is the prognosis for someone with NF1?
NF1 is a progressive disorder, which means most symptoms will worsen over time, although a small number of people may have symptoms that remain constant.
It isn't possible to predict the course of an individual's disorder.
In general, most people with NF1 will develop mild to moderate symptoms.
Most people with NF1 have a normal life expectancy.
Neurofibromas on or under the skin can increase with age and cause cosmetic and psychological issues.
What is hepatitis?
'Hepatitis' means inflammation of the liver.
Toxins, certain drugs, some diseases, heavy alcohol use, and bacterial and viral infections can all cause hepatitis.
Hepatitis is also the name of a family of viral infections that affect the liver; the most common types are Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.
What is Bronchitis?
Bronchitis is a very common condition.
Why is CDC concerned aboutBalamuthia infection now?
During 2009-2010, CDC identified two clusters of transplant-transmitted Balamuthia GAE.
In each cluster, there were four transplant recipients; two transplant recipients became ill while two other recipients from each donor have not shown symptoms.
The second cluster of cases is still being investigated.
Both clusters are described in the September 17, 2010 issue of the MMWR.
What is Physical activity?
Physical activity is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
Why is an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy performed?
a hiatal hernia - when the upper part of the stomach slips through the diaphragm and moves up into the chest.
The diaphragm is the muscle wall that separates the stomach from the chest.
How Can Atherosclerosis Be Prevented or Delayed?
A healthy diet includes a variety of fruits and vegetables including beans and peas.
It also includes whole grains, lean meats, poultry without skin, seafood, and fat-free or low-fat milk and dairy products.
A healthy diet is low in sodium salt, added sugar, solid fats, and refined grains.
What research is being done for Chorea?
The NINDS supports research on movement disorders such as chorea.
The goals of this research are to increase understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent and treat them.
What is Hydranencephaly?
Hydranencephaly is a rare condition in which the brain's cerebral hemispheres are absent and replaced by sacs filled with cerebrospinal fluid.
An infant with hydranencephaly may appear normal at birth.
The infant's head size and spontaneous reflexes such as sucking, swallowing, crying, and moving the arms and legs may all seem normal.
However, after a few weeks the infant usually becomes irritable and has increased muscle tone.
After a few months of life, seizures and hydrocephalus excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the brain may develop.
Other symptoms may include visual impairment, lack of growth, deafness, blindness, spastic quadriparesis paralysis, and intellectual deficits.
Hydranencephaly is considered to be an extreme form of porencephaly a rare disorder characterized by a cyst or cavity in the cerebral hemispheres and may be caused by vascular infections or traumatic disorders after the 12th week of pregnancy.
Diagnosis may be delayed for several months because early behavior appears to be relatively normal.
Some infants may have additional abnormalities at birth including seizures, myoclonus spasm or twitching of a muscle or group of muscles, and respiratory problems.
How is gas treated?
If you are lactose intolerant, lactase tablets or liquid drops can help you digest milk and milk products.
You can also find lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products at the grocery store.
What is Heat exhaustion?
Heat exhaustion is the body's response to an excessive loss of the water and salt, usually through excessive sweating.
What is Surgery Surgery?
Surgery Surgery is the treatment of choice for patients with stage II NSCLC.
What do I ask the doctor?
Visiting the doctor can be stressful.
It helps to have questions for the doctor or nurse written down ahead of time.
Print this list of questions, and take it to your appointment.
What should you expect before Percutaneous Coronary Intervention?
Even though PCI takes only 1 - 2 hours, you'll likely need to stay in the hospital overnight.
Your doctor may advise you to not drive for a certain amount of time after the procedure.
Thus, you'll probably need to arrange a ride home.
What is the role of exercise in the treatment of PPS?
Exercise is safe and effective when carefully prescribed and monitored by experienced health professionals.
Exercise is more likely to benefit those muscle groups that were least affected by polio.
Cardiopulmonary endurance training is usually more effective than strengthening exercises, especially when activities are paced to allow for frequent breaks and strategies are used to conserve energy.
Heavy or intense resistive exercise and weight-lifting using polio-affected muscles may be counterproductive, as this can further weaken rather than strengthen these muscles.
How Are Palpitations Diagnosed?
First, your doctor will want to find out whether your palpitations are harmless or related to a heart problem.
He or she will ask about your symptoms and medical history, do a physical exam, and recommend several basic tests.
What is Tuberculosis TB caused by?
Tuberculosis TB is caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
What are the signs and symptoms of schwannomatosis?
The distinguishing feature of schwannomatosis is the development of multiple schwannomas everywhere in the body except on the vestibular nerve.
The dominant symptom is pain, which develops as a schwannoma enlarges, compresses nerves, or presses on adjacent tissue.
Some people experience additional neurological symptoms, such as numbness, tingling, or weakness in the fingers and toes.
Individuals with schwannomatosis do not have neurofibromas.
What are the symptoms of celiac disease?
Irritability is another common symptom in children.
Malabsorption of nutrients during the years when nutrition is critical to a child's normal growth and development can result in other problems such as failure to thrive in infants, delayed growth and short stature, delayed puberty, and dental enamel defects of the permanent teeth.
Can hepatitis B be treated?
The treatment for hepatitis B depends on which type of infection it is.
A hepatitis B infection can be either acute short-term or chronic long-term.
What is Cranio-facial dystonia?
Cranio-facial dystonia is a term used to describe dystonia that affects the muscles of the head, face, and neck such as blepharospasm.
What are the symptoms of CO poisoning?
The most common symptoms of CO poisoning are headache, dizziness, weakness, nausea, vomiting, chest pain, and confusion.
High levels of CO inhalation can cause loss of consciousness and death.
Unless suspected, CO poisoning can be difficult to diagnose because the symptoms mimic other illnesses.
People who are sleeping or intoxicated can die from CO poisoning before ever experiencing symptoms.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Tetralogy of Fallot?
Babies who have tetralogy of Fallot may tire easily while feeding.
Thus, they may not gain weight or grow as quickly as children who have healthy hearts.
Also, normal growth depends on a normal workload for the heart and normal flow of oxygen-rich blood to all parts of the body.
Does binge drinking during early pregnancy increase the risk of psychomotor deficits?
Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research; 2013; doi: 10.1111/acer.12072
How is A blood smear used?
A blood smear is used to check the condition of your platelets.
What research is being done for Hydrocephalus?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to hydrocephalus and support additional research through grants to major medical research institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as hydrocephalus.
The NINDS also conducts and supports a wide range of fundamental studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal and abnormal brain development.
The Hydrocephalus Clinical Research Network HCRN, www.hcrn.org is a multi-center collaborative research effort that was borne out of the first NIH workshop on hydrocephalus.
NINDS supported the work of HCRN through the Challenge Grant process to advance their studies.
HCRN consists of seven pediatric centers that pool their hydrocephalus patient population to more rapidly study the potential for improved treatments.
HCRN conducts multiple, simultaneous studies at all of its centers and maintains a substantial registry of patients and procedures.
What is Cardiac MRI?
Cardiac MRI is a painless test that uses radio waves and magnets to created detailed pictures of your organs and tissues.
What is Cerebral atrophy?
Cerebral atrophy is a common feature of many of the diseases that affect the brain.
What research is being done for Acid Lipase Disease?
The National Library of Medicine NLM, a part of the National Institutes of Health NIH within the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, offers free searches of biomedical literature through an Internet service called PubMed.
To search, go to: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed .
The NLM also offers extensive health information from NIH and other trusted sources.
To research your condition, go to: http://www.medlineplus.gov .
Who is at greatest risk of getting sick from drinking raw milk?
The risk of getting sick from drinking raw milk is greater for infants and young children, the elderly, pregnant women, and people with weakened immune systems, such as people with cancer, an organ transplant, or HIV/AIDS, than it is for healthy school-aged children and adults.
But, it is important to remember that healthy people of any age can get very sick or even die if they drink raw milk contaminated with harmful germs.
Who Is at Risk for Atherosclerosis?
The exact cause of atherosclerosis isn't known.
However, certain traits, conditions, or habits may raise your risk for the disease.
These conditions are known as risk factors.
The more risk factors you have, the more likely it is that you'll develop atherosclerosis.
Is there any treatment for Acid Lipase Disease?
Enzyme replacement therapy for both Wolman's and cholesteryl ester storage disease is currently under active investigation.
Certain drugs may be given to help with adrenal gland production, and children may need to be fed intravenously.
Individuals with CESD may benefit from a low cholesterol diet.
What is Holmes-Adie syndrome HAS?
Holmes-Adie syndrome HAS is a neurological disorder affecting the pupil of the eye and the autonomic nervous system.
What is Periventricular Leukomalacia?
Periventricular leukomalacia PVL is characterized by the death of the white matter of the brain due to softening of the brain tissue.
It can affect fetuses or newborns; premature babies are at the greatest risk of the disorder.
PVL is caused by a lack of oxygen or blood flow to the periventricular area of the brain, which results in the death or loss of brain tissue.
The periventricular area-the area around the spaces in the brain called ventricles-contains nerve fibers that carry messages from the brain to the body's muscles.
Although babies with PVL generally have no outward signs or symptoms of the disorder, they are at risk for motor disorders, delayed mental development, coordination problems, and vision and hearing impairments.
PVL may be accompanied by a hemorrhage or bleeding in the periventricular-intraventricular area the area around and inside the ventricles, and can lead to cerebral palsy.
The disorder is diagnosed by ultrasound of the head.
How Is ARDS Treated?
ARDS is treated in a hospital's intensive care unit.
Current treatment approaches focus on improving blood oxygen levels and providing supportive care.
Doctors also will try to pinpoint and treat the underlying cause of the condition.
How Can Anemia Be Prevented?
You might be able to prevent repeat episodes of some types of anemia, especially those caused by lack of iron or vitamins.
Dietary changes or supplements can prevent these types of anemia from occurring again.
How Is Coronary Heart Disease Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose coronary heart disease CHD based on your medical and family histories, your risk factors for CHD, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures.
When should antiviral drugs be taken for treatment?
Studies show that flu antiviral drugs work best for treatment when they are started within 2 days of getting sick.
However, starting them later can still be helpful, especially if the sick person has a high risk health condition or is very sick from the flu.
Follow instructions for taking these drugs.
What is the prognosis for Holoprosencephaly?
The prognosis for individuals with the disorder depends on the severity of the brain and facial deformities.
Will My Paget's Disease Get Worse? What Should I Expect?
Paget's disease does not affect everyone in the same way.
Some people have a very mild case with few or no symptoms.
Others have symptoms and complications.
Pain is the most common symptom.
Depending on which of your bones are affected by Paget's disease, you might have other symptoms and complications, such as those listed below.
What are Raynaud's?
Raynaud's is a rare disorder that affects the arteries.
Where is Isabel's family?
Isabel's family is in the kitchen with their dog.
What research is being done for Kleine-Levin Syndrome?
NINDS supports a broad range of clinical and basic research on diseases causing sleep disorders in an effort to clarify the mechanisms of these conditions and to develop better treatments for them.
What are Encephaloceles?
Encephaloceles are rare neural tube defects characterized by sac-like protrusions of the brain and the membranes that cover it through openings in the skull.
These defects are caused by failure of the neural tube to close completely during fetal development.
The result is a groove down the midline of the upper part of the skull, or the area between the forehead and nose, or the back of the skull.
When located in the back of the skull, encephaloceles are often associated with neurological problems.
Usually encephaloceles are dramatic deformities diagnosed immediately after birth, but occasionally a small encephalocele in the nasal and forehead region can go undetected.
Encephaloceles are often accompanied by craniofacial abnormalities or other brain malformations.
Symptoms and associated abnormalities of encephaloceles may include hydrocephalus excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the brain, spastic quadriplegia paralysis of the arms and legs, microcephaly abnormally small head, ataxia uncoordinated movement of the voluntary muscles, such as those involved in walking and reaching, developmental delay, vision problems, mental and growth retardation, and seizures.
Some affected children may have normal intelligence.
There is a genetic component to the condition; it often occurs in families with a history of spina bifida and anencephaly in family members.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
What causes Zollinger-Ellison syndrome?
Experts do not know the exact cause of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
About 25 to 30 percent of gastrinomas are caused by an inherited genetic disorder called multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 MEN1.
MEN1 causes hormone-releasing tumors in the endocrine glands and the duodenum.
Symptoms of MEN1 include increased hormone levels in the blood, kidney stones, diabetes, muscle weakness, weakened bones, and fractures.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
What is Regorafenib Regorafenib?
Regorafenib Regorafenib is an inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinase pathways including vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF.
Where are molds found?
Molds are found in virtually every environment and can be detected, both indoors and outdoors, year round.
Mold growth is encouraged by warm and humid conditions.
Outdoors they can be found in shady, damp areas or places where leaves or other vegetation is decomposing.
Indoors they can be found where humidity levels are high, such as basements or showers.
Who Should NOT Get Vaccinated with these Vaccines?
Because of age, health conditions, or other factors, some people should not get certain vaccines or should wait before getting them.
Read the guidelines below for each vaccine.
What is Trigeminal Neuralgia?
Trigeminal neuralgia TN, also called tic douloureux, is a chronic pain condition that causes extreme, sporadic, sudden burning or shock-like face pain.
The pain seldom lasts more than a few seconds or a minute or two per episode.
The intensity of pain can be physically and mentally incapacitating.
TN pain is typically felt on one side of the jaw or cheek.
Episodes can last for days, weeks, or months at a time and then disappear for months or years.
In the days before an episode begins, some patients may experience a tingling or numbing sensation or a somewhat constant and aching pain.
The attacks often worsen over time, with fewer and shorter pain-free periods before they recur.
The intense flashes of pain can be triggered by vibration or contact with the cheek such as when shaving, washing the face, or applying makeup, brushing teeth, eating, drinking, talking, or being exposed to the wind.
TN occurs most often in people over age 50, but it can occur at any age, and is more common in women than in men.
There is some evidence that the disorder runs in families, perhaps because of an inherited pattern of blood vessel formation.
Although sometimes debilitating, the disorder is not life-threatening.
Is there any treatment for Coma?
Once an individual is out of immediate danger, the medical care team focuses on preventing infections and maintaining a healthy physical state.
This will often include preventing pneumonia and bedsores and providing balanced nutrition.
Physical therapy may also be used to prevent contractures permanent muscular contractions and deformities of the bones, joints, and muscles that would limit recovery for those who emerge from coma.
What is Heart block?
Heart block is a problem that occurs with the heart's electrical system.
What is Ulcerative colitis?
Ulcerative colitis is a disease that causes inflammation, or swelling, and ulcers in the inner lining of the large intestine.
What are Risk Factors for a Stroke?
Race.
People from certain ethnic groups have a higher risk of stroke.
For African Americans, stroke is more common and more deadly - even in young and middle-aged adults - than for any ethnic or other racial group in the United States.
Studies show that the age-adjusted incidence of stroke is about twice as high in African Americans and Hispanic Americans as in Caucasians.
An important risk factor for African-Americans is sickle cell disease, which can cause a narrowing of arteries and disrupt blood flow.
The incidence of the various stroke subtypes also varies considerably in different ethnic groups.
What Causes Excessive Blood Clotting?
Excessive blood clotting can occur if the body's clotting process is altered or wrongly triggered.
Blood clots can form in, or travel to, the arteries or veins in the brain, heart, kidneys, lungs, and limbs.
Arteries and veins are the blood vessels that carry blood to your heart and body..
What is Alcoholics Anonymous?
Alcoholics Anonymous is a fellowship of men and women who share their experience, strength and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism.
Do you know all the ways to measure a child's growth?
We naturally think of height and weight, but from birth to 5 years, a child should reach milestones in how he plays, learns, speaks and acts.
A delay in any of these areas could be a sign of a developmental problem, even autism.
The good news is, the earlier it's recognized, the more can be done to help a child reach her full potential.
Is measles still a problem in the United States?
In the last decade, measles vaccination in the United States has decreased the number of cases to the lowest point ever reported.
Widespread use of the measles vaccine has led to a greater than 99% reduction in measles compared with the decade before the measles vaccination program began, when an estimated 3 - 4 million persons in the United States were infected each year, 400 - 500 died, 48,000 were hospitalized, and another 1,000 developed chronic disability from measles encephalitis.
What is the gastrointestinal GI tract?
The lower GI tract Your body digests food as it moves through the GI tract.
The leftover waste from the digested food enters your large intestine as liquid.
Your large intestine absorbs water and changes the liquid to a solid form called stool.
Stool passes from your colon to your rectum where it is stored before a bowel movement.
The muscles of your rectum move stool to your anus and out of your body.
What is proctitis?
Proctitis is inflammation of the lining of the rectum, the lower end of the large intestine leading to the anus.
The large intestine and anus are part of the gastrointestinal GI tract.
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
The movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, allows for the digestion of food.
With proctitis, inflammation of the rectal lining - called the rectal mucosa - is uncomfortable and sometimes painful.
The condition may lead to bleeding or mucous discharge from the rectum, among other symptoms.
What are the symptoms?
AVMs also can cause a wide range of more specific neurological symptoms that vary from person to person, depending primarily upon the location of the AVM.
Such symptoms may include muscle weakness or paralysis in one part of the body; a loss of coordination ataxia that can lead to such problems as gait disturbances; apraxia, or difficulties carrying out tasks that require planning; dizziness; visual disturbances such as a loss of part of the visual field; an inability to control eye movement; papilledema swelling of a part of the optic nerve known as the optic disk; various problems using or understanding language aphasia; abnormal sensations such as numbness, tingling, or spontaneous pain paresthesia or dysesthesia; memory deficits; and mental confusion, hallucinations, or dementia.
Researchers have recently uncovered evidence that AVMs may also cause subtle learning or behavioral disorders in some people during their childhood or adolescence, long before more obvious symptoms become evident.
What if I have high cholesterol?
As your cholesterol gets higher, so does your risk of heart disease.
Take these steps to lower your cholesterol and reduce your risk of heart disease:
What are the reasons for needing a liver transplant?
Your body's natural defense system, called the immune system, keeps you healthy by fighting against things that can make you sick, such as bacteria and viruses.
Autoimmune liver diseases occur when your immune system doesn't recognize the liver as a part of your body and attacks it.
Hereditary diseases are passed from parents to children through genes.
What is The Surgeon General?
The Surgeon General is the nation's highest-ranking public health officer.
What is Leigh's Disease?
Leigh's disease is a rare inherited neurometabolic disorder that affects the central nervous system.
This progressive disorder begins in infants between the ages of three months and two years.
Rarely, it occurs in teenagers and adults.
Leigh's disease can be caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA or by deficiencies of an enzyme called pyruvate dehydrogenase.
Symptoms of Leigh's disease usually progress rapidly.
The earliest signs may be poor sucking ability,and the loss of head control and motor skills.These symptoms may be accompanied by loss of appetite, vomiting, irritability, continuous crying, and seizures.
As the disorder progresses, symptoms may also include generalized weakness, lack of muscle tone, and episodes of lactic acidosis, which can lead to impairment of respiratory and kidney function.
What is Canavan Disease?
Symptoms of Canavan disease usually appear in the first 3 to 6 months of life and progress rapidly.
Symptoms include lack of motor development, feeding difficulties, abnormal muscle tone weakness or stiffness, and an abnormally large, poorly controlled head.
Paralysis, blindness, or hearing loss may also occur.
Children are characteristically quiet and apathetic.
Although Canavan disease may occur in any ethnic group, it is more frequent among Ashkenazi Jews from eastern Poland, Lithuania, and western Russia, and among Saudi Arabians.
Canavan disease can be identified by a simple prenatal blood test that screens for the missing enzyme or for mutations in the gene that controls aspartoacylase.
Both parents must be carriers of the defective gene in order to have an affected child.
When both parents are found to carry the Canavan gene mutation, there is a one in four 25 percent chance with each pregnancy that the child will be affected with Canavan disease.
How Is Endocarditis Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose infective endocarditis IE based on your risk factors, your medical history and signs and symptoms, and test results.
Who is at risk for developing GBS?
Anyone can develop GBS; however, it is more common among older adults.
The incidence of GBS increases with age, and people older than 50 years are at greatest risk for developing GBS.
What is Sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a chronic condition that requires long-term management.
Is there any treatment for Diabetic Neuropathy?
The goal of treating diabetic neuropathy is to prevent further tissue damage and relieve discomfort.
The first step is to bring blood sugar levels under control by diet and medication.
Another important part of treatment involves taking special care of the feet by wearing proper fitting shoes and routinely checking the feet for cuts and infections.
Analgesics, low doses of antidepressants, and some anticonvulsant medications may be prescribed for relief of pain, burning, or tingling.
Some individuals find that walking regularly, taking warm baths, or using elastic stockings may help relieve leg pain.
What is A common treatment for IPF?
A common treatment for IPF is a combination of prednisone, azathioprine, and N-acetylcysteine.
What Is Kawasaki Disease?
In Kawasaki disease, the walls of the blood vessels throughout the body become inflamed.
The disease can affect any type of blood vessel in the body, including the arteries, veins, and capillaries.
What is the prognosis for Orthostatic Hypotension?
The prognosis for individuals with orthostatic hypotension depends on the underlying cause of the condition.
What is Gardening?
Gardening is a great outdoor activity for people of all ages.
What Is Oxygen Therapy?
Oxygen therapy is a treatment that provides you with extra oxygen, a gas that your body needs to work well.
Normally, your lungs absorb oxygen from the air.
However, some diseases and conditions can prevent you from getting enough oxygen.
What is Cerebellar tremor?
Cerebellar tremor is a slow tremor of the extremities that occurs at the end of a purposeful movement intention tremor, such as trying to press a button or touching a finger to the tip of one's nose.
How Are Stents Placed?
Doctors place stents in arteries as part of a procedure called percutaneous coronary intervention PCI, sometimes referred to as coronary angioplasty.
To place a stent, your doctor will make a small opening in a blood vessel in your groin upper thigh, arm, or neck.
What is Wallenberg's Syndrome?
Wallenberg's syndrome is a neurological condition caused by a stroke in the vertebral or posterior inferior cerebellar artery of the brain stem.
Symptoms include difficulties with swallowing, hoarseness, dizziness, nausea and vomiting, rapid involuntary movements of the eyes nystagmus, and problems with balance and gait coordination.
Some individuals will experience a lack of pain and temperature sensation on only one side of the face, or a pattern of symptoms on opposite sides of the body - such as paralysis or numbness in the right side of the face, with weak or numb limbs on the left side.
Uncontrollable hiccups may also occur, and some individuals will lose their sense of taste on one side of the tongue, while preserving taste sensations on the other side.
Some people with Wallenberg's syndrome report that the world seems to be tilted in an unsettling way, which makes it difficult to keep their balance when they walk.
How Is Raynaud's Treated?
Primary Raynaud's Raynaud's disease and secondary Raynaud's Raynaud's phenomenon have no cure.
However, treatments can reduce the number and severity of Raynaud's attacks.
Treatments include lifestyle changes, medicines, and, rarely, surgery.
Is there any treatment for Huntington's Disease?
Physicians prescribe a number of medications to help control emotional and movement problems associated with HD.
In August 2008 the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approved tetrabenazine to treat Huntington's chorea the involuntary writhing movements, making it the first drug approved for use in the United States to treat the disease.
Most drugs used to treat the symptoms of HD have side effects such as fatigue, restlessness, or hyperexcitability.
It is extremely important for people with HD to maintain physical fitness as much as possible, as individuals who exercise and keep active tend to do better than those who do not.
What are the Symptoms of the Disease?
There are several known variants of CJD.
These variants differ somewhat in the symptoms and course of the disease.
For example, a variant form of the disease-called new variant or variant nv-CJD, v-CJD, described in Great Britain and France-begins primarily with psychiatric symptoms, affects younger individuals than other types of CJD, and has a longer than usual duration from onset of symptoms to death.
Another variant, called the panencephalopathic form, occurs primarily in Japan and has a relatively long course, with symptoms often progressing for several years.
Scientists are trying to learn what causes these variations in the symptoms and course of the disease.
How can a person prevent cyclic vomiting syndrome?
A health care provider may refer people with cyclic vomiting syndrome and anxiety to a stress management specialist for relaxation therapy or other treatments.
What Is Mitral Valve Prolapse?
Much of the time, MVP doesn't cause any problems.
Rarely, blood can leak the wrong way through the floppy valve.
This can lead to palpitations, shortness of breath, chest pain, and other symptoms.
Palpitations are feelings that your heart is skipping a beat, fluttering, or beating too hard or too fast..
What is A risk factor?
A risk factor is a condition or behavior that occurs more frequently in those who have, or are at greater risk of getting, a disease than in those who don't.
What is A CT scanner?
A CT scanner is a large, tunnel-like machine with a hole in the center.
What is the prognosis for Empty Sella Syndrome?
ESS is not a life-threatening illness.
What research is being done for Infantile Refsum Disease?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to IRD in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH, and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Research is focused on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as the PBDs.
Is there any treatment for Hydrocephalus?
Hydrocephalus is most often treated with the surgical placement of a shunt system.
This system diverts the flow of CSF from a site within the central nervous system to another area of the body where it can be absorbed as part of the circulatory process.
A limited number of individuals can be treated with an alternative procedure called third ventriculostomy.
In this procedure, a small hole is made in the floor of the third ventricle, allowing the CSF to bypass the obstruction and flow toward the site of resorption around the surface of the brain.
Is there any treatment for Fahr's Syndrome?
There is no cure for Fahr's Syndrome, nor is there a standard course of treatment.
Treatment addresses symptoms on an individual basis.
What is Secondary insomnia?
Secondary insomnia is the symptom or side effect of another problem.
What is Porencephaly?
Porencephaly is an extremely rare disorder of the central nervous system in which a cyst or cavity filled with cerebrospinal fluid develops in the brain.
How is Whipple disease diagnosed?
celiac disease - a digestive disease that damages the small intestine and interferes with the absorption of nutrients from food.
People who have celiac disease cannot tolerate gluten, a protein in wheat, rye, and barley.
How do I Prepare for Surgery and Recovery?
Set up a 'recovery station' at home.
Place the television remote control, radio, telephone, medicine, tissues, wastebasket, and pitcher and glass next to the spot where you will spend the most time while you recover.
What is Posterior embryotoxon?
Posterior embryotoxon is a condition in which an opaque ring is seen in the cornea, the transparent covering of the eyeball.
How Can I Help Research on Epilepsy?
There are many ways that people with epilepsy and their families can help with research on this disorder.
Pregnant women with epilepsy who are taking antiepileptic drugs can help researchers learn how these drugs affect unborn children by participating in the Antiepileptic Drug Pregnancy Registry, which is maintained by the Genetics and Teratology Unit of Massachusetts General Hospital see section on Pregnancy and Motherhood.
People with epilepsy that may be hereditary can aid research by participating in the Epilepsy Gene Discovery Project, which is supported by the Epilepsy Foundation.
This project helps to educate people with epilepsy about new genetic research on the disorder and enlists families with hereditary epilepsy for participation in gene research.
People who enroll in this project are asked to create a family tree showing which people in their family have or have had epilepsy.
Researchers then examine this information to determine if the epilepsy is in fact hereditary, and they may invite participants to enroll in genetic research studies.
In many cases, identifying the gene defect responsible for epilepsy in an individual family leads researchers to new clues about how epilepsy develops.
It also can provide opportunities for early diagnosis and genetic screening of individuals in the family.
How do I Submit Specimens to CDC for RMSF Testing?
Private citizens may not directly submit specimens to CDC for testing.
If you feel that diagnostic testing is necessary, consult your healthcare provider or state health department.
How are tumors graded?
The generally accepted scale for grading CNS tumors was approved by the World Health Organization in 1993.
Grading is based on the tumor's cellular makeup and location.
Tumors may also be classified as low-grade slowly growing or high-grade rapidly growing.
Some tumors change grades as they progress, usually to a higher grade, and can become a different type of tumor.
The tumor is graded by a pathologist following a biopsy or during surgery.
What is Fulguration?
Fulguration is a surgical procedure that destroys tissue using an electric current.
What is Tardive dyskinesia?
Tardive dyskinesia is a neurological syndrome caused by the long-term use of neuroleptic drugs.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a metabolic bone disease characterized by low bone mass, which makes bones fragile and susceptible to fracture.
What is Fundoplication?
Fundoplication is an operation to sew the top of the stomach around the esophagus to add pressure to the lower end of the esophagus and reduce reflux.
What is Swine Influenza swine flu?
Swine Influenza swine flu is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by type A influenza virus that regularly causes outbreaks of influenza in pigs.
What is Guillain-Barre syndrome?
Guillain-Barre syndrome is a disorder in which the body's immune system attacks part of the peripheral nervous system.
What is Pneumococcal meningitis?
Pneumococcal meningitis is the most common form of meningitis and is the most serious form of bacterial meningitis.
A qualified environmental lab took samples of the mold in my home and gave me the results.
Can CDC interpret these results?
Standards for judging what is an acceptable, tolerable or normal quantity of mold have not been established.
If you do decide to pay for environmental sampling for molds, before the work starts, you should ask the consultants who will do the work to establish criteria for interpreting the test results.
They should tell you in advance what they will do or what recommendations they will make based on the sampling results.
The results of samples taken in your unique situation cannot be interpreted without physical inspection of the contaminated area or without considering the building's characteristics and the factors that led to the present condition.
How is stenosis treated?
Two large clinical trials evaluated the efficacy of carotid endarterectomy: the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial NASCET and the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study ACAS.
NASCET evaluated the risks and benefits of carotid endarterectomy for individuals who experienced a stroke or other symptoms due to the stenosis such as a mini stroke or transient ischemic attack TIA.
When performed by a qualified and experienced surgeon, carotid endarterectomy is a very effective stroke prevention therapy for patients with carotid stenosis-related symptoms and greater than 70 percent stenosis in the carotid arteries.
ACAS evaluated indivduals with asymptomatic stenosis, where a patient had no symptoms but the arterial blockage was identified in a medical exam.
These individuals have a low annual risk of stroke, about 2 to 3 percent per year, and carotid endarterectomy cut this risk in half.
In follow-up studies of otherwise healthy individuals five years post-surgery, the decreased annual stroke risk outweighed the risks of the carotid endarterectomy.
What is Shingles?
Shingles herpes zoster is an outbreak of rash or blisters on the skin that is caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox - the varicella-zoster virus.
The first sign of shingles is often burning or tingling pain, or sometimes numbness or itch, in one particular location on only one side of the body.
After several days or a week, a rash of fluid-filled blisters, similar to chickenpox, appears in one area on one side of the body.
Shingles pain can be mild or intense.
Some people have mostly itching; some feel pain from the gentlest touch or breeze.
The most common location for shingles is a band, called a dermatome, spanning one side of the trunk around the waistline.
Anyone who has had chickenpox is at risk for shingles.
Scientists think that in the original battle with the varicella-zoster virus, some of the virus particles leave the skin blisters and move into the nervous system.
When the varicella-zoster virus reactivates, the virus moves back down the long nerve fibers that extend from the sensory cell bodies to the skin.
The viruses multiply, the tell-tale rash erupts, and the person now has shingles.
How Is Pulmonary Hypertension Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose pulmonary hypertension PH based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures.
Who gets transverse myelitis?
Transverse myelitis occurs in adults and children, in both genders, and in all races.
No familial predisposition is apparent.
A peak in incidence rates the number of new cases per year appears to occur between 10 and 19 years and 30 and 39 years.
Although only a few studies have examined incidence rates, it is estimated that about 1,400 new cases of transverse myelitis are diagnosed each year in the United States, and approximately 33,000 Americans have some type of disability resulting from the disorder.
What is Dermatitis herpetiformis DH?
Dermatitis herpetiformis DH is an intensely itchy, blistering skin rash that affects 15 to 25 percent of people with celiac disease.
What is intestinal adaptation?
After removal of a large portion of the small intestine, the remaining small intestine goes through a process of adaptation that increases its ability to absorb nutrients.
The inner lining grows, increasing its absorptive surface area.
Intestinal adaptation can take up to 2 years to occur.
Researchers are studying intestinal adaptation and ways to help the remaining small intestine adapt more quickly and function better.
What is Trametinib Trametinib?
Trametinib Trametinib is an orally available, small-molecule, selective inhibitor of MEK1 and MEK2.
What are the symptoms of proctitis?
Tenesmus - an uncomfortable and frequent urge to have a bowel movement - is one of the most common symptoms of proctitis.
Other symptoms may include.
What research is being done for Parry-Romberg?
The NINDS supports research on neurological disorders such as Parry-Romberg syndrome with the goal of finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
What is the prognosis for Glossopharyngeal Neuralgia?
Some individuals recover from an initial attack and never have another.
Others will experience clusters of attacks followed by periods of short or long remission.
Individuals may lose weight if they fear that chewing, drinking, or eating will cause an attack.
Are Women Taking Steps to Stay Healthy?
Both poor women and high-income women at risk for type 2 diabetes were significantly less likely to get enough physical activity each week than women from the same economic groups who weren't at risk.
Among poor women, physical activity levels were 26.0% for those at high risk; 43.6% for other women.
Among high-income women, physical activity levels were 21.9% for those at high risk; 29.9% for other women.
How many people in the United States are hospitalized withseasonal influenza in a typical year?
A study conducted by CDC and published in the Journal of American Medical Association JAMA in September 2004 provided information on the number of people in the United States that are hospitalized from seasonal influenza-related complications each year.
The study was based on records from 1979 to 2001 from about 500 hospitals across the United States.
The study concluded that, on average, more than 200,000 people in the United States are hospitalized each year for respiratory and heart conditions illnesses associated with seasonal influenza virus infections.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Palpitations?
Palpitations often are harmless, and your heart is working normally.
However, these feelings can be a sign of a more serious problem if you also:
How does a spinal cord injury affect the rest of the body and how is it treated?
People who survive a spinal cord injury often have medical complications resulting in bladder, bowel, and sexual dysfunction.
They may also develop chronic pain, autonomic dysfunction, and spasticity increased tone in and contractions of muscles of the arms and legs , but this is highly variable and poorly understood.
Higher levels of injury may have an increased susceptibility to respiratory and heart problems.
What is Cardiovascular disease?
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in the US.
What is Thalassemia?
Thalassemia is a group of blood disorders passed from parents to children through genes inherited.
What is a Traumatic Brain Injury?
TBI, a form of acquired brain injury, occurs when a sudden trauma causes damage to the brain.
The damage can be focal - confined to one area of the brain - or diffuse - involving more than one area of the brain.
TBI can result from a closed head injury* or a penetrating head injury.
A closed injury occurs when the head suddenly and violently hits an object but the object does not break through the skull.
A penetrating injury occurs when an object pierces the skull and enters brain tissue.
How is constipation treated?
Eating, Diet, and Nutrition The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics recommends getting 20 to 35 grams of fiber a day for adults.
Talk with your doctor to plan a diet with the right amount of fiber for you.
Be sure to add fiber to your diet a little at a time so your body gets used to the change.
Try not to eat too many foods with little or no fiber, such as pizza, ice cream, cheese, meat, chips, and processed foods.
A list of high-fiber foods is shown below.
How Is von Willebrand Disease Diagnosed?
Sometimes VWD is hard to diagnose.
People who have type 1 or type 2 VWD may not have major bleeding problems.
Thus, they may not be diagnosed unless they have heavy bleeding after surgery or some other trauma.
What Is Atelectasis?
Atelectasis at-uh-LEK-tuh-sis is a condition in which one or more areas of your lungs collapse or don't inflate properly.
If only a small area or a few small areas of lung are affected, you may have no signs or symptoms.
Q: Will the vaccine require a booster?
A: Currently in the US, there are three shots in the HPV vaccine series that are given over six months; there are no booster doses recommended.
Like all vaccines, HPV vaccine is continually monitored to make sure that it remains safe and effective.
If protection from HPV vaccine doesn't last as long as it should, then the Advisory Committee for Immunization Practice would review the data and determine if a booster should be recommended.
What research is being done for Congenital Myasthenia?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH support research related to congenital myasthenia through grants to major research institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat and ultimately cure disorders such as congenital myasthenia.
If I was diagnosed with Chagas disease in the past, can I donate blood?
No.
If you have ever been diagnosed with Chagas disease, you will not be able to donate blood.
Who needs a liver transplant?
In children, biliary atresia is the most common cause of liver failure and the need for a liver transplant.
Biliary atresia is a disease in newborns in which the bile ducts are absent, damaged, or blocked.
As a result, toxic bile builds up in the liver, resulting in cirrhosis.
What is Sarcoidosis sar-koy-DO-sis?
Sarcoidosis sar-koy-DO-sis is a disease of unknown cause that leads to inflammation.
What is Tay-Sachs disease?
Tay-Sachs disease is a fatal genetic lipid storage disorder in which harmful quantities of a fatty substance called ganglioside GM2 build up in tissues and nerve cells in the brain.
Is Paget's Disease a Form of Arthritis?
People with Paget's disease often have arthritis at the same time, but they are different diseases.
Sometimes Paget's disease is confused with arthritis because the pain from Paget's disease may be located on the part of the bone closest to a joint.
So, it may feel a lot like the joint pain of arthritis.
Paget's disease can cause arthritis over time when enlarged and misshapen bones put extra stress on nearby joints.
Your doctor may use several tests find out if you have Paget's disease.
What are the types of autoimmune hepatitis?
Autoimmune hepatitis is classified into several types.
Type 1 autoimmune hepatitis is the most common form in North America.
Type 1 can occur at any age; however, it most often starts in adolescence or young adulthood.
About 70 percent of people with type 1 autoimmune hepatitis are female.
What Are the Risks of a Nuclear Heart Scan?
If you have coronary heart disease, you may have chest pain during the stress test while you're exercising or taking medicine to raise your heart rate.
Medicine can relieve this symptom.
What research is being done for Canavan Disease?
The gene for Canavan disease has been located.
Many laboratories offer prenatal screening for this disorder to populations at risk.
Scientists have developed animal models for this disease and are using the models to test potential therapeutic strategies.
Three strategies are currently under investigation: gene transfer to the brain in order to replace the mutated gene for the enzyme; metabolic therapy to provide a crucial missing metabolite acetate; and enzyme therapy where the enzyme aspartoacylase is engineered to be able to enter the brain and is injected in the the blood stream.
Encouraging results have been obtained using these strategies.
Have Questions about Immunization?
Talk with your child's health care professional, contact your local or state health department, or call the CDC at 800-CDC-INFO 800-232-4636.
What is a Concussion?
A concussion is a type of traumatic brain injury that changes the way the brain normally works.
A concussion is caused by a bump, blow, or jolt to the head.
Concussions can also occur from a fall or blow to the body that causes the head and brain to move rapidly back and forth.
Even what seems to be a mild bump to the head can be serious.
What Puts Women and Girls at Risk?
A higher percentage of African American and Hispanic/Latino women are living with HIV compared to other races/ethnicities.
This coupled with the fact that women tend to have sex with partners of their same race/ethnicity increases the risk of HIV infection with each new sexual encounter.
What is Essential Tremor?
Tremor is an unintentional, somewhat rhythmic, muscle movement involving to-and-fro movements oscillations of one or more parts of the body.
Essential tremor previously called benign essential tremor is the most common form of abnormal tremor.
In some people, tremor is a symptom of a neurological disorder or appears as a side effect of certain drugs.
Although it may be mild and nonprogressive in some people, in others the tremor is slowly progressive, starting on one side of the body but eventually affecting both sides.
Hand tremor is most common but the head, arms, voice, tongue, legs, and trunk may also be involved.
Hand tremor may cause problems with purposeful movements such as eating, writing, sewing, or shaving.
Head tremor may be seen as a yes-yes or no-no motion.
Essential tremor may be accompanied by mild gait disturbance.
Heightened emotion, stress, fever, physical exhaustion, or low blood sugar may trigger tremors or increase their severity.
There may be mild degeneration in the certain parts of the cerebellum in persons with essential tremor.
Onset is most common after age 40, although symptoms can appear at any age.
Children of a parent who has essential tremor have up to a 50 percent chance of inheriting the condition.
Essential tremor is not associated with any known pathology.
What is Gallbladder cancer?
Gallbladder cancer is a rare disease in which malignant cancer cells are found in the tissues of the gallbladder.
What is Coil embolization?
Coil embolization is a less complex procedure for treating an aneurysm.
Is there any treatment for Febrile Seizures?
A child who has a febrile seizure usually doesn't need to be hospitalized.
If the seizure is prolonged or is accompanied by a serious infection, or if the source of the infection cannot be determined, a doctor may recommend that the child be hospitalized for observation.
Prolonged daily use of oral anticonvulsants, such as phenobarbital or valproate, to prevent febrile seizures is usually not recommended because of their potential for side effects and questionable effectiveness for preventing such seizures.
What are the signs and symptoms of head lice infestation?
Sores on the head caused by scratching.
These sores can sometimes become infected with bacteria found on the person's skin.
What do I ask the doctor?
What are the benefits and harms risks of prostate cancer screening and treatment?
What is Sustainability?
Sustainability is a community's ongoing capacity and resolve to work together to establish, advance, and maintain effective strategies that continuously improve health and quality of life for all.
For every healthy community, sustainability is the end goal.
It is never too late to work on sustainability, yet it works best if sustainability plans are created at the beginning stages of coalition development.
Sustainability provides an infrastructure to identify and address community health challenges.
It helps a community make the best use of the resources it has and makes it possible to leverage resources for future activity.
As part of the sustainability process, developing a plan is critical.
A plan helps -
What research is being done for Febrile Seizures?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research on seizures at its research center in Bethesda, Maryland, and through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
NINDS-supported scientists are exploring what environmental and genetic risk factors make children susceptible to febrile seizures.
Investigators continue to monitor the long-term impact that febrile seizures might have on intelligence, behavior, school achievement, and the development of epilepsy.
Investigators also continue to explore which drugs can effectively treat or prevent febrile seizures.
What are the symptoms of gastritis?
Erosive gastritis may cause ulcers or erosions in the stomach lining that can bleed.
Signs of bleeding in the stomach include.
How Can Overweight and Obesity Be Prevented?
We Can! is a national education program designed for parents and caregivers to help children 8 to 13 years old maintain a healthy weight.
The evidence-based program offers parents and families tips and fun activities to encourage healthy eating, increase physical activity, and reduce time spent being inactive.
What is Healthy People 2010 HP 2010?
Healthy People 2010 HP 2010 is a set of health objectives the nation committed to strive to achieve over the first decade of the new century.
What is the prognosis for Lipid Storage Diseases?
The prognosis for a lipid storage disorder is determined by the type of disease, the age of onset, and the severity of symptoms.
Children with Gaucher disease may live well into adulthood, while children with Niemann-Pick disease most often die at a young age from infection or progressive neurological loss.
Children with Fabry disease often die prematurely of complications from heart disease, renal failure, or stroke.
Most children with Farber's disease die by age 2, usually from lung disease.
Children with Tay-Sachs disease may eventually need a feeding tube and they often die by age 4 from recurring infection.
What research is being done for Foot Drop?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to the neurological conditions that cause foot drop in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH, and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure the kinds of neurological disorders that cause foot drop.
What is the Future of Pain Research?
Plasticity: Following injury, the nervous system undergoes a tremendous reorganization.
This phenomenon is known as plasticity.
For example, the spinal cord is rewired following trauma as nerve cell axons make new contacts, a phenomenon known as sprouting.
This in turn disrupts the cells' supply of trophic factors.
Scientists can now identify and study the changes that occur during the processing of pain.
For example, using a technique called polymerase chain reaction, abbreviated PCR, scientists can study the genes that are induced by injury and persistent pain.
There is evidence that the proteins that are ultimately synthesized by these genes may be targets for new therapies.
The dramatic changes that occur with injury and persistent pain underscore that chronic pain should be considered a disease of the nervous system, not just prolonged acute pain or a symptom of an injury.
Thus, scientists hope that therapies directed at preventing the long-term changes that occur in the nervous system will prevent the development of chronic pain conditions.
What Is Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura?
The increased clotting that occurs in TTP also uses up platelets PLATE-lets in the blood.
Platelets are blood cell fragments that help form blood clots.
These cell fragments stick together to seal small cuts and breaks on blood vessel walls and stop bleeding.
What do I need to say?
Check out these strategies to help you talk with your kids about staying healthy and drug free.
What is Dandy-Walker Syndrome?
Dandy-Walker Syndrome is a congenital brain malformation involving the cerebellum an area at the back of the brain that controls movement and the fluid-filled spaces around it.
What are pulse oximetry screening results?
If the results are negative in-range result, it means that the baby's test results did not show signs of a CCHD.
This type of screening test does not detect all CCHDs, so it is possible to still have a critical or other heart defect with a negative screening result.
If the results are positive fail or out-of-range result, it means that the baby's test results showed low levels of oxygen in the blood.
This can be a sign of a CCHD.
This does not always mean that the baby has a CCHD.
It just means that more testing is needed.
What research is being done for Central Cord Syndrome?
Our understanding of central cord syndrome has increased greatly in recent decades as a result of research funded conducted by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure neurological disorders such as central cord syndrome.
Want to learn more?
By stocking up on healthier foods that contain fewer calories, you'll be making small changes that can prepare you to be a weight-loss success story!
What are some of the physical changes my child will go through?
You can help by giving your child information about what changes to expect during puberty.
You can also encourage your child to talk with another trusted adult, like a teacher or school nurse.
What is gas?
Gas is air in the digestive tract - the large, muscular tube that extends from the mouth to the anus, where the movement of muscles, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, allows for the digestion of food.
Gas leaves the body when people burp through the mouth or pass gas through the anus.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Rh Incompatibility?
Jaundice is a yellowish color of the skin and whites of the eyes.
When red blood cells die, they release hemoglobin into the blood.
The hemoglobin is broken down into a compound called bilirubin.
This compound gives the skin and eyes a yellowish color.
High levels of bilirubin can lead to brain damage in the baby.
What Areas Does Osteoarthritis Affect?
Osteoarthritis most often occurs in the hands at the ends of the fingers and thumbs, spine neck and lower back, knees, and hips
What research is being done for Arachnoid Cysts?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to brain abnormalities and disorders of the nervous system such as arachnoid cysts in laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH, and supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure neurological disorders such as arachnoid cysts.
How does People Get It?
Participating in activities such as kayaking, canoeing, hiking, climbing, and other similar types of outdoor activities can increase the risk of leptospirosis infection.
These activities - sometimes called adventure racing - often involve entering bodies of fresh water and/or contact with soil for long periods of time.
What does Stage IV refers to disease that refer to?
Stage IV refers to disease that is diffusely spread throughout an extranodal site, such as the liver.
What is Melkersson-Rosenthal Syndrome?
Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome is a rare neurological disorder characterized by recurring facial paralysis, swelling of the face and lips usually the upper lip, and the development of folds and furrows in the tongue.
Onset is in childhood or early adolescence.
After recurrent attacks ranging from days to years in between, swelling may persist and increase, eventually becoming permanent.
The lip may become hard, cracked, and fissured with a reddish-brown discoloration.
The cause of Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome is unknown, but there may be a genetic predisposition.
It can be symptomatic of Crohn's disease or sarcoidosis.
What is A BMI of less than 25?
A BMI of less than 25 is the goal for preventing and treating atherosclerosis.
What is Doppler ultrasound?
Doppler ultrasound is a painless, noninvasive test in which sound waves above the range of human hearing are sent into the neck.
How are diverticulosis and diverticular disease treated?
A health care provider may treat the symptoms of diverticulosis with a high-fiber diet or fiber supplements, medications, and possibly probiotics.
Treatment for diverticular disease varies, depending on whether a person has diverticulitis or diverticular bleeding.
What is Multiple Sclerosis MS?
Multiple Sclerosis MS is the most common disabling neurological disease of young adults.
What is blood pressure?
Arteries are the tubes that carry blood away from your heart.
Every time your heart beats, it pumps blood through your arteries to the rest of your body.
What causes Myasthenia gravis?
Myasthenia gravis is caused by a defect in the transmission of nerve impulses to muscles.
What is Lesch-Nyhan Syndrome?
Lesch-Nyhan syndrome LNS is a rare, inherited disorder caused by a deficiency of the enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase HPRT.
LNS is an X-linked recessive disease-- the gene is carried by the mother and passed on to her son.
LNS is present at birth in baby boys.
The lack of HPRT causes a build-up of uric acid in all body fluids, and leads to symptoms such as severe gout, poor muscle control, and moderate retardation, which appear in the first year of life.
A striking feature of LNS is self-mutilating behaviors - characterized by lip and finger biting - that begin in the second year of life.
Abnormally high uric acid levels can cause sodium urate crystals to form in the joints, kidneys, central nervous system, and other tissues of the body, leading to gout-like swelling in the joints and severe kidney problems.
Neurological symptoms include facial grimacing, involuntary writhing, and repetitive movements of the arms and legs similar to those seen in Huntington's disease.
Because a lack of HPRT causes the body to poorly utilize vitamin B12, some boys may develop a rare disorder called megaloblastic anemia.
What causes MSA?
The cause or causes of MSA are unknown.
The symptoms reflect the dysfunction and eventual loss of nerve cells in several different areas in the brain and spinal cord that control the autonomic nervous system and coordinate muscle movements.
The loss of nerve cells may be due to the buildup of a protein called alpha-synuclein in the cells that produce dopamine, a neurotransmitter that relays motor commands in the brain.
The buildup also occurs in other cells called oligodendroglia, which help transmit nerve signals.
MSA, along with Parkinson's disease and some other neurodegenerative conditions, are called synucleinopathies because they share a buildup of alpha-synuclein in brain cells.
How is a lower gastrointestinal series performed?
When the imaging is complete, the radiologist or technician will deflate the balloon on the tube, and most of the barium will drain through the tube.
The person will expel the remaining barium into a bedpan or nearby toilet.
A nurse or technician may give the person an enema to further flush out the barium.
How Is High Blood Cholesterol Treated?
* Some people in this category are at very high risk because they've just had a heart attack or they have diabetes and heart disease, severe risk factors, or metabolic syndrome.
If you're at very high risk, your doctor may set your LDL goal even lower, to less than 70 mg/dL.
Your doctor also may set your LDL goal at this lower level if you have heart disease alone.
How is Machado-Joseph Disease treated?
MJD is incurable, but some symptoms of the disease can be treated.
Levodopa therapy used in treating individuals with Parkinson's disease can ease parkinsonian features stiffness and slowness of movments, often accompanied by a tremor for many years.
Antispasmodic drugs, such as baclofen, can help reduce spasticity.
Botulinum toxin can treat severe spasticity and some symptoms of dystonia, but it should be used as a last resort due to possible side effects, such as swallowing problems dysphagia.
Speech problems dysarthria and dysphagia can be treated with medication and speech therapy.
Wearing prism glasses can reduce blurred or double vision, but eye surgery has only short-term benefits due to the progressive degeneration of eye muscles.
Physiotherapy can help individuals cope with disability associated with gait problems, and physical aids, such as walkers and wheelchairs, can assist people with everyday activities.
Daytime sleepiness, a common complaint in MJD as is sleep disturbance in general, can be treated with modafanil and should prompt a formal sleep evaluation.
Other problems, such as cramps and urinary dysfunction, can be treated with medications and medical care.
Who Is at Risk for Vasculitis?
Vasculitis can affect people of all ages and races and both sexes.
Some types of vasculitis seem to occur more often in people who:
What Does Transesophageal Echocardiography Show?
Doctors also may use TEE during cardiac catheterization.
TEE can help doctors guide the catheter thin, flexible tube through the blood vessels.
TEE also can help doctors prepare for surgery or assess a patient's status during or after surgery.
How Is Asthma Treated and Controlled?
Your doctor may need to increase your medicine if your asthma doesn't stay under control.
On the other hand, if your asthma is well controlled for several months, your doctor may decrease your medicine.
These adjustments to your medicine will help you maintain the best control possible with the least amount of medicine necessary.
What Is a Total Artificial Heart?
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs.
End stage means the condition has become so severe that all treatments, except heart transplant, have failed.
A heart transplant is surgery to remove a person's diseased heart and replace it with a healthy heart from a deceased donor..
Is there any treatment for Lipid Storage Diseases?
Currently there is no specific treatment available for most of the lipid storage disorders, although Gaucher and Fabry diseases have highly effective enzyme replacement therapies.
There is currently no cure for Niemann-Pick disease.
Treatment is supportive.
Doctors often prescribe corticosteroids to relieve the pain of Farber's disease.
Anticonvulsant medications are often used to control seizures in Tay-Sachs disease.
Does it hurt to get tested?
Some people find the tests for colorectal cancer to be uncomfortable.
Most people agree that the benefits to their health outweigh the discomfort.
What should you expect after Carotid Endarterectomy?
After carotid endarterectomy CEA, you may stay in the hospital for 1 to 2 days.
This allows you to safely recover from the procedure.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
What are the signs and symptoms of NF2?
a family history of NF2 parent, sibling, or child plus a unilateral vestibular schwannoma before age 30; or.
What are the symptoms of celiac disease?
Some people with celiac disease may not feel sick or have symptoms.
Or if they feel sick, they don't know celiac disease is the cause.
Most people with celiac disease have one or more symptoms.
Not all people with celiac disease have digestive problems.
Having one or more of these symptoms does not always mean a person has celiac disease because other disorders can cause these symptoms.
What is the gastrointestinal GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
The body digests food using the movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes.
Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine - which includes the appendix, cecum, colon, and rectum - and anus.
The intestines are sometimes called the bowel.
The last part of the GI tract - called the lower GI tract - consists of the large intestine and anus.
Who Is at Risk for Raynaud's?
Certain diseases and conditions.
For example, diseases that directly damage the arteries or damage the nerves that control the arteries in the hands and feet may cause secondary Raynaud's.
For more information, go to What Causes Raynaud's?.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What is Thyrotoxic myopathy?
Thyrotoxic myopathy is a neuromuscular disorder that may accompany hyperthyroidism Graves' disease, caused by overproduction of the thyroid hormone thyroxine.
What Is the Difference Between Acute and Chronic Pain?
Pain that hits you suddenly - after falling from a ladder, being tackled on the football field, or lifting a load that is too heavy, for example - is acute pain.
Acute pain comes on quickly and often leaves just as quickly.
To be classified as acute, pain should last no longer than 6 weeks.
Acute pain is the most common type of back pain.
What is Polymyositis?
Polymyositis is one of a group of muscle diseases known as the inflammatory myopathies, which are characterized by chronic muscle inflammation accompanied by muscle weakness.
Polymyositis affects skeletal muscles those involved with making movement on both sides of the body.
It is rarely seen in persons under age 18; most cases are in adults between the ages of 31 and 60.
Progressive muscle weakness starts in the proximal muscles muscles closest to the trunk of the body which eventually leads to difficulties climbing stairs, rising from a seated position, lifting objects, or reaching overhead.
People with polymyositis may also experience arthritis, shortness of breath, difficulty swallowing and speaking, and heart arrhythmias.
In some cases of polymyositis, distal muscles muscles further away from the trunk of the body, such as those in the forearms and around the ankles and wrists may be affected as the disease progresses.
Polymyositis may be associated with collagen-vascular or autoimmune diseases, such as lupus.
Polymyositis may also be associated with infectious disorders, such as HIV-AIDS.
What is Wernicke's encephalopathy?
Wernicke's encephalopathy is a degenerative brain disorder caused by the lack of thiamine vitamin B1.
What is Post-polio syndrome PPS?
Post-polio syndrome PPS is a condition that affects polio survivors years after recovery from an initial acute attack of the poliomyelitis virus.
How can I avoid CO poisoning from my vehicle?
Never run a car or truck in the garage with the garage door shut.
CO can build up quickly while your car or truck is running in a closed garage.
Never run your car or truck inside a garage that is attached to a house and always open the door to any garage to let in fresh air when running a car or truck inside the garage.
How long should antiviral drugs be taken?
To treat the flu, Tamiflu and Relenza are usually prescribed for 5 days, although people hospitalized with the flu may need the medicine for longer than 5 days.
What causes Fabry disease?
Fabry disease is caused by the lack of or faulty enzyme needed to metabolize lipids, fat-like substances that include oils, waxes, and fatty acids.
What is Gaucher disease?
Gaucher disease is the most common of the lipid storage diseases.
What are the signs, symptoms, and types of treatment available forSalmonella infections?
Sometimes, people can become so sick from a Salmonella infection that they have to go to the hospital.
Infants, elderly persons, and those with weakened immune systems are more likely than others to develop severe illness.
When severe infection occurs, Salmonella may spread from the intestines to the bloodstream and then to other body sites and can cause death unless the person is treated promptly with antibiotics.
How Is Fanconi Anemia Treated?
Doctors decide how to treat Fanconi anemia FA based on a person's age and how well the person's bone marrow is making new blood cells.
What causes inguinal hernias?
The cause of inguinal hernias depends on the type of inguinal hernia.
How much physical activity do you need?
Fitting regular exercise into your daily schedule may seem difficult at first, but the 2008 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans are more flexible than ever, giving you the freedom to reach your physical activity goals through different types and amounts of activities each week.
It's easier than you think!
How Is Long QT Syndrome Diagnosed?
Cardiologists diagnose and treat long QT syndrome LQTS.
Cardiologists are doctors who specialize in diagnosing and treating heart diseases and conditions.
To diagnose LQTS, your cardiologist will consider your:
Is there any treatment for Striatonigral Degeneration?
There is no cure for striatonigral degeneration, and treatments for the disorder have variable success.
Treatments used for Parkinson's disease are recommended.
However, unlike Parkinson's disease, striatonigral degeneration is not responsive to levodopa.
Dopamine and anticholinergics provide some benefit.
Generally, treatment is reevaluated as the disorder progresses.
How Is Restless Legs Syndrome Treated?
Mild cases of RLS often are treated with lifestyle changes and sometimes with periodic use of medicines.
More severe RLS usually is treated with daily medicines.
Is there any treatment for Chronic Pain?
Medications, acupuncture, local electrical stimulation, and brain stimulation, as well as surgery, are some treatments for chronic pain.
Some physicians use placebos, which in some cases has resulted in a lessening or elimination of pain.
Psychotherapy, relaxation and medication therapies, biofeedback, and behavior modification may also be employed to treat chronic pain.
What is CDC's National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities NCBDDD doing about FASDs?
NCBDDD is committed to training and educating medical and allied health students and practitioners to improve screening and care for women at risk of an alcohol-exposed pregnancy and identification, diagnosis, and referral to treatment for individuals with prenatal alcohol exposure.
NCBDDD supports education and training activities with multiple partners.
When Should I See a Doctor for Pain?
In most cases, it is not necessary to see a doctor for back pain because pain usually goes away with or without treatment.
However, a trip to the doctor is probably a good idea if you have numbness or tingling, if your pain is severe and doesn't improve with medication and rest, or if you have pain after a fall or an injury.
It is also important to see your doctor if you have pain along with any of the following problems: trouble urinating; weakness, pain, or numbness in your legs; fever; or unintentional weight loss.
Such symptoms could signal a serious problem that requires treatment soon.
What is the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool IRAT?
Ten scientific criteria are used to measure the potential pandemic risk associated with each of these scenarios.
These 10 criteria can be grouped into three overarching categories: 'properties of the virus,' 'attributes of the population,' and 'ecology & epidemiology of the virus.' Influenza subject matter experts will evaluate novel influenza viruses based on each of these 10 criteria.
Each of the 10 criteria is then weighted statistically based on its significance to each of the two scenarios.
A composite score for each virus is then calculated based on the given scenario.
These composite scores provide a means to rank and compare influenza viruses to each other in terms of their potential pandemic risk for each of the two scenarios.
How Can Rh Incompatibility Be Prevented?
Thus, a woman who has Rh-negative blood must be treated with Rh immune globulin during and after each pregnancy or after any other event that allows her blood to mix with Rh-positive blood.
What Is Vitamin A?
Retinol is sometimes called 'true' vitamin A because it is nearly ready for the body to use.
Retinol is found in such animal foods as liver, eggs, and fatty fish.
It also can be found in many fortified foods, such as breakfast cereals, and in dietary supplements.
What is Surfactant?
Surfactant is a liquid that coats the inside of the lungs.
What should you do if you have an MRSA infection?
Tell your healthcare providers that you have MRSA.
This includes home health nurses and aides, therapists, and personnel in doctors' offices.
What is Central Pain Syndrome?
Central pain syndrome is a neurological condition caused by damage to or dysfunction of the central nervous system CNS, which includes the brain, brainstem, and spinal cord.
This syndrome can be caused by stroke, multiple sclerosis, tumors, epilepsy, brain or spinal cord trauma, or Parkinson's disease.
The character of the pain associated with this syndrome differs widely among individuals partly because of the variety of potential causes.
Central pain syndrome may affect a large portion of the body or may be more restricted to specific areas, such as hands or feet.
The extent of pain is usually related to the cause of the CNS injury or damage.
Pain is typically constant, may be moderate to severe in intensity, and is often made worse by touch, movement, emotions, and temperature changes, usually cold temperatures.
Individuals experience one or more types of pain sensations, the most prominent being burning.
Mingled with the burning may be sensations of pins and needles; pressing, lacerating, or aching pain; and brief, intolerable bursts of sharp pain similar to the pain caused by a dental probe on an exposed nerve.
Individuals may have numbness in the areas affected by the pain.
The burning and loss of touch sensations are usually most severe on the distant parts of the body, such as the feet or hands.
Central pain syndrome often begins shortly after the causative injury or damage, but may be delayed by months or even years, especially if it is related to post-stroke pain.
What research is being done for Miller Fisher Syndrome?
The NINDS supports research aimed at discovering new ways to diagnose, treat, and, ultimately, cure neuropathies such as Miller Fisher syndrome.
How widespread is mental illness?
According to the World Health Organization, mental illness results in more disability in developed countries than any other group of illnesses, including cancer and heart disease.
Other published studies report that about 25% of all U.S.
adults have a mental illness and that nearly 50% of U.S.
adults will develop at least one mental illness during their lifetime.
What is Rituximab?
Rituximab is a mouse/human chimeric monoclonal antibody targeting the CD20 antigen.
What should you expect before Bone Marrow Tests?
Before the tests, you may be given medicine to help you relax.
This medicine makes you sleepy, so you likely won't be able to drive after the test.
Thus, your health care team may advise you to arrange a ride home.
Why is getting enough sleep important?
You can make better decisions and avoid injuries.
For example, sleepy drivers cause thousands of car crashes every year.
How much lactose can a person with lactose intolerance have?
Individuals vary in the amount of lactose they can tolerate.
A variety of factors - including how much lactase the small intestine produces - can affect how much lactose an individual can tolerate.
For example, one person may have severe symptoms after drinking a small amount of milk, while another person can drink a large amount without having symptoms.
Other people can easily eat yogurt and hard cheeses such as cheddar and Swiss, while they are not able to eat or drink other milk products without having digestive symptoms.
What Causes LAM?
TSC is a genetic disease.
A defect in one of two genes causes the disease.
These genes are called TSC1 and TSC2.
They normally make proteins that control cell growth and movement in the body.
In people who have TSC, the genes are faulty.
The proteins that the genes make can't control cell growth and movement.
Can Friedreich's ataxia be cured or treated?
As with many degenerative diseases of the nervous system, there is currently no cure or effective treatment for Friedreich's ataxia.
However, many of the symptoms and accompanying complications can be treated to help individuals maintain optimal functioning as long as possible.
Doctors can prescribe treatments for diabetes, if present; some of the heart problems can be treated with medication as well.
Orthopedic problems such as foot deformities and scoliosis can be corrected with braces or surgery.
Physical therapy may prolong use of the arms and legs.
Advances in understanding the genetics of Friedreich's ataxia are leading to breakthroughs in treatment.
Research has moved forward to the point where clinical trials of proposed treatments are presently occurring for Friedreich's ataxia.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of High Blood Cholesterol?
If you're 20 years old or older, have your cholesterol levels checked at least once every 5 years.
Talk with your doctor about how often you should be tested.
How is TN diagnosed?
TN diagnosis is based primarily on the person's history and description of symptoms, along with results from physical and neurological examinations.
Other disorders that cause facial pain should be ruled out before TN is diagnosed.
Some disorders that cause facial pain include post-herpetic neuralgia nerve pain following an outbreak of shingles, cluster headaches, and temporomandibular joint disorder TMJ, which causes pain and dysfunction in the jaw joint and muscles that control jaw movement.
Because of overlapping symptoms and the large number of conditions that can cause facial pain, obtaining a correct diagnosis is difficult, but finding the cause of the pain is important as the treatments for different types of pain may differ.
What are the risk factors for stroke?
There are things you can do to prevent stroke.
High blood pressure increases your risk of stroke four to six times.
Heart disease, especially a condition known as atrial fibrillation or AF, can double your risk of stroke.
Your risk also increases if you smoke, have diabetes, sickle cell disease, high cholesterol, or a family history of stroke.
What is the prognosis for Cerebral Palsy?
Cerebral palsy doesn't always cause profound disabilities.
While one child with severe cerebral palsy might be unable to walk and need extensive, lifelong care, another with mild cerebral palsy might not require special assistance.
Supportive treatments, medications, and surgery can help many individuals improve their motor skills and ability to communicate with the world.
What is the current treatment?
A shunt is a flexible but sturdy plastic tube.
A shunt system consists of the shunt, a catheter, and a valve.
One end of the catheter is placed within a ventricle inside the brain or in the CSF outside the spinal cord.
The other end of the catheter is commonly placed within the abdominal cavity, but may also be placed at other sites in the body such as a chamber of the heart or areas around the lung where the CSF can drain and be absorbed.
A valve located along the catheter maintains one-way flow and regulates the rate of CSF flow.
What should you expect before Coronary Angiography?
Whether you have diseases or conditions that may require taking extra steps during or after the test to avoid complications.
Examples of such conditions include diabetes and kidney disease.
What is short bowel syndrome?
Short bowel syndrome is a group of problems related to poor absorption of nutrients that typically occurs in people who have had half or more of their small intestine removed.
The small intestine and the large intestine, also called the colon, make up the bowel.
The small intestine is where most digestion of food and absorption of nutrients occur.
People with short bowel syndrome cannot absorb enough water, vitamins, and other nutrients from food to sustain life.
What research is being done for Moebius Syndrome?
The NINDS conducts and supports a broad range of research on neurogenetic disorders, including Moebius syndrome.
The goals of these studies are to develop improved techniques to diagnose, treat, and eventually cure these disorders.
What research is being done for Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome?
The NINDS supports research on neurological disorders such as Wernicke's encephalopathy, Korsakoff's amnesic syndrome, and Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, aimed at finding ways to prevent them.
The National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism also supports research on these disorders.
What should you do if You Find an Attached Tick?
Watch for signs of illness such as rash or fever in the days and weeks following the bite, and see a health care provider if these develop.
Your risk of acquiring a tick-borne illness depends on many factors, including where you live, what type of tick bit you, and how long the tick was attached.
If you become ill after a tick bite, see a health care provider.
How does smoking affect liver disease?
The liver is the largest organ in the digestive system.
The liver carries out many functions, such as making important blood proteins and bile, changing food into energy, and filtering alcohol and poisons from the blood.
Research has shown that smoking harms the liver's ability to process medications, alcohol, and other toxins and remove them from the body.
In some cases, smoking may affect the dose of medication needed to treat an illness.
Who gets ALS?
More than 12,000 people in the U.S.
have a definite diagnosis of ALS, for a prevalence of 3.9 cases per 100,000 persons in the U.S.
general population, according to a report on data from the National ALS Registry.
ALS is one of the most common neuromuscular diseases worldwide, and people of all races and ethnic backgrounds are affected.
ALS is more common among white males, non-Hispanics, and persons aged 60 - 69 years, but younger and older people also can develop the disease.
Men are affected more often than women.
How is A dilator used?
A dilator is used to widen the cervix middle panel.
Do I have to give up my favorite comfort food?
Try a lower-calorie version.
Use lower-calorie ingredients or prepare food differently.
For example, if your macaroni and cheese recipe uses whole milk, butter, and full-fat cheese, try remaking it with non-fat milk, less butter, light cream cheese, fresh spinach and tomatoes.
Just remember to not increase your portion size.
For more ideas on how to cut back on calories, see Eat More Weigh Less.
Will My Health Insurance Pay for My Mammogram?
Are you worried about the cost or currently don't have health insurance? CDC's National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program NBCCEDP offers free or low-cost mammograms and education about breast cancer.
Find out if you qualify.
How is appendicitis treated?
Appendicitis is typically treated with surgery to remove the appendix.
The surgery is performed in a hospital; general anesthesia is needed.
If appendicitis is suspected, especially in patients who have persistent abdominal pain and fever, or signs of a burst appendix and infection, a health care provider will often suggest surgery without conducting diagnostic testing.
Prompt surgery decreases the chance that the appendix will burst.
What should you expect after Echocardiography?
If you have a transesophageal echo TEE, you may be watched for a few hours at the doctor's office or hospital after the test.
Your throat might be sore for a few hours after the test.
What is Oxygen therapy?
Oxygen therapy is a treatment that provides you with extra oxygen, a gas that your body needs to work well.
At what age should a child be vaccinated?
Children 6 months up to 9 years of age getting a flu vaccine for the first time will need two doses of vaccine the first year they are vaccinated.
If possible, the first dose should be given in September or as soon as vaccine becomes available.
The second dose should be given 28 or more days after the first dose.
The first dose 'primes' the immune system; the second dose provides immune protection.
Children who only get one dose but who need two doses can have reduced or no protection from a single dose of flu vaccine.
Two doses are necessary to protect these children.
What can I do to protect myself against the flu?
If you do get the flu, antiviral drugs are an important treatment option.
Antiviral drugs are prescription medicines pills, liquid or an inhaler that fight against the flu by keeping flu viruses from reproducing in your body.
Antiviral drugs can make your illness milder and make you feel better faster.
They may also prevent serious flu complications.
This could be especially important for people at high risk.
For treatment, antiviral drugs work best if started soon after getting sick within 2 days of symptoms.
What is An arrhythmia ah-RITH-me-ah?
An arrhythmia ah-RITH-me-ah is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat.
What are the signs and symptoms?
Depending on the mucopolysaccharidoses subtype, affected individuals may have normal intellect or may be profoundly retarded, may experience developmental delay, or may have severe behavioral problems.
Many individuals have hearing loss, either conductive in which pressure behind the ear drum causes fluid from the lining of the middle ear to build up and eventually congeal, neurosensitive in which tiny hair cells in the inner ear are damaged, or both.
Communicating hydrocephalus, in which the normal circulation of cerebrospinal fluid becomes blocked over time and causes increased pressure inside the head, is common in some of the mucopolysaccharidoses.
Surgically inserting a shunt into the brain can drain fluid.
The eye's cornea often becomes cloudy from intracellular storage, and degeneration of the retina and glaucoma also may affect the patient's vision.
What causes viral gastroenteritis?
Four types of viruses cause most cases of viral gastroenteritis.
What is the gastrointestinal GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
The movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, starts the digestion of food.
The upper GI tract includes the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and duodenum, which is the first part of the small intestine.
Who Is at Risk for Bronchitis?
Smoking and having an existing lung disease greatly increase your risk for bronchitis.
Contact with dust, chemical fumes, and vapors from certain jobs also increases your risk for the condition.
Examples include jobs in coal mining, textile manufacturing, grain handling, and livestock farming.
How Long Are Recovery and Rehabilitation?
Usually, people do not spend more than 3 to 5 days in the hospital after hip replacement surgery.
Full recovery from the surgery takes about 3 to 6 months, depending on the type of surgery, your overall health, and the success of your rehabilitation.
Is there any treatment for Multi-Infarct Dementia?
There is no treatment available to reverse brain damage that has been caused by a stroke.
Treatment focuses on preventing future strokes by controlling or avoiding the diseases and medical conditions that put people at high risk for stroke: high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol, and cardiovascular disease.
The best treatment for MID is prevention early in life - eating a healthy diet, exercising, not smoking, moderately using alcohol, and maintaining a healthy weight.
What research is being done for Klippel-Trenaunay?
The NINDS supports research on congenital disorders such as KTS with the goal of finding new means to treat and prevent them.
What Is an Aneurysm?
Arteries have thick walls to withstand normal blood pressure.
However, certain medical problems, genetic conditions, and trauma can damage or injure artery walls.
The force of blood pushing against the weakened or injured walls can cause an aneurysm.
What is Biologic therapy?
Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer.
What research is being done for Melkersson-Rosenthal Syndrome?
The NINDS supports research on neurological disorders such as Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome.
Much of this research is aimed at increasing knowledge of these disorders and finding ways to treat, prevent, and ultimately cure them.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
What is Erythema nodosum?
Erythema nodosum is a rash of red or reddish-purple bumps on your ankles and shins.
What is Depression?
Depression is a hard subject for many people to talk about.
How are abdominal adhesions and intestinal obstructions diagnosed?
A lower GI series is an x-ray exam that is used to look at the large intestine.
The test is performed at a hospital or an outpatient center by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist.
Anesthesia is not needed.
The health care provider may provide written bowel prep instructions to follow at home before the test.
The person may be asked to follow a clear liquid diet for 1 to 3 days before the procedure.
A laxative or an enema may be used before the test.
A laxative is medication that loosens stool and increases bowel movements.
An enema involves fl ushing water or laxative into the rectum using a special squirt bottle.
For the test, the person will lie on a table while the radiologist inserts a flexible tube into the person's anus.
The large intestine is fi lled with barium, making signs of underlying problems show up more clearly on x rays.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis often can be prevented.
It is known as a silent disease because if undetected, bone loss can progress for many years without symptoms until a fracture occurs.
Osteoporosis has been called a childhood disease with old age consequences because building healthy bones in youth helps prevent osteoporosis and fractures later in life.
However, it is never too late to adopt new habits for healthy bones.
What should you expect after Pulmonary Rehabilitation?
If you have little to no improvement, talk with your doctor.
He or she might want to change your medical therapy.
Or, your doctor might recommend more tests.
These tests can show whether you have another condition that also may have to be treated to improve your breathing.
What research is being done for Cerebral?
The relationship between intracranial and aortic aneurysm has long been recognized but poorly quantified.
Recent genome-wide association studies GWAS provide molecular evidence for shared biological function and activities pathophysiology of these aneurysms.
A specific site on chromosome 9p21 has been identified as increasing the risk for both intracranial and aortic aneurysms.
These GWAS data, along with linkage data to other susceptible locations for genes or DNA sequences, indicate that individuals and families harboring one type of aneurysm may be at especially increased risk of the other.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Varicose Veins?
Signs of telangiectasias are clusters of red veins that you can see just under the surface of your skin.
These clusters usually are found on the upper body, including the face.
Signs of spider veins are red or blue veins in a web or tree branch pattern.
Often, these veins appear on the legs and face.
What is Breast cancer?
Breast cancer is the most common therapy-related solid subsequent neoplasm after Hodgkin lymphoma.
What should you expect during Oxygen Therapy?
Because oxygen poses a fire risk, you'll need to take certain safety steps.
Oxygen isn't explosive, but it can worsen a fire.
In the presence of oxygen, a small fire can quickly get out of control.
Also, the cylinder that compressed oxygen gas comes in can explode if it's exposed to heat.
What if the surgeon finds a normal appendix?
Occasionally, a surgeon finds a normal appendix.
In this case, many surgeons will remove it to eliminate the future possibility of appendicitis.
Occasionally, surgeons find a different problem, which may also be corrected during surgery.
What is Corticobasal Degeneration?
Corticobasal degeneration is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by nerve cell loss and atrophy shrinkage of multiple areas of the brain including the cerebral cortex and the basal ganglia.
Corticobasal degeneration progresses gradually.
Initial symptoms, which typically begin at or around age 60, may first appear on one side of the body unilateral, but eventually affect both sides as the disease progresses.
Symptoms are similar to those found in Parkinson disease, such as poor coordination, akinesia an absence of movements, rigidity a resistance to imposed movement, disequilibrium impaired balance; and limb dystonia abnormal muscle postures.
Other symptoms such as cognitive and visual-spatial impairments, apraxia loss of the ability to make familiar, purposeful movements, hesitant and halting speech, myoclonus muscular jerks, and dysphagia difficulty swallowing may also occur.
An individual with corticobasal degeneration eventually becomes unable to walk.
What Is the Heart?
Your heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood to your body.
Your heart is at the center of your circulatory system.
This system consists of a network of blood vessels, such as arteries, veins, and capillaries.
These blood vessels carry blood to and from all areas of your body.
What should I do if I think I may have giardiasis?
Contact your health care provider.
Am I at risk for AAA?
Emphysema 'em-fa-ZEE-ma' - a type of lung disease that makes it hard to breathe.
What Is Cardiac Rehabilitation?
Address risk factors that can lead to coronary heart disease and other heart problems.
These risk factors include high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, overweight or obesity, diabetes, smoking, lack of physical activity, and depression and other emotional health concerns.
Why is Alcohol Dangerous during Pregnancy?
When a pregnant woman drinks alcohol, so does her unborn baby.
Alcohol in the mother's blood passes through the placenta to the baby through the umbilical cord.
Drinking alcohol during pregnancy can cause miscarriage, stillbirth, and a range of lifelong disorders, known as fetal alcohol spectrum disorders FASDs.
Read more about the characteristics and behaviors of children with FASDs and how much alcohol is too much to drink during pregnancy.
Is there any treatment for Autism?
There is no cure for autism.
Therapies and behavioral interventions are designed to remedy specific symptoms and can bring about substantial improvement.
The ideal treatment plan coordinates therapies and interventions that meet the specific needs of individual children.
Treatment options include educational/bahavioral interventions, medications, and other therapies.
Most professionals agree that the earlier the intervention, the better.
How Can Iron-Deficiency Anemia Be Prevented?
Taking iron supplements also may lower your risk for the condition if you're not able to get enough iron from food.
Large amounts of iron can be harmful, so take iron supplements only as your doctor prescribes.
What can states do to improve breastfeeding rates?
Use the Breastfeeding Report Card to identify your state's needs, develop solutions, and work together within your community to better protect, promote, and support breastfeeding statewide.
Is there a vaccine for swine flu?
Vaccines are available to be given to pigs to prevent swine influenza illness.
What is the gastrointestinal GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
The movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, allows for the digestion of food.
Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine - which includes the appendix, cecum, colon, and rectum - and anus.
The intestines are sometimes called the bowel.
The last part of the GI tract - called the lower GI tract - consists of the large intestine and anus.
What research is being done for Neurological?
Several animal-based models of HIV including mouse, rat, and simian models are used by scientists to study disease mechanisms and the course of AIDS, and NINDS grantees are working to develop new models of HIV.
Several projects rely on a mouse model of severe combined immunodeficiency a group of inherited disorders that are characterized by a lack of or severe defect in cells responsible for protecting the immune system.
This model allows researchers to transplant developing human brain tissue from culture into the brains of the mice to monitor and assess neurologic damage caused by HIV infection.
Other studies use mice bred to carry symptoms of HIV, and NINDS grantees are using these animals to see if the brain can function as a sanctuary for HIV-infected cells that can migrate to and infect peripheral lymph tissue.
What research is being done for Tay-Sachs Disease?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, a part of the National Institutes of Health NIH, conducts research about Tay-Sachs disease in laboratories at the NIH and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Where can I get more information about the flu?
For more information about treating flu and flu symptoms, including information about why children or teenagers with flu-like symptoms should NOT take aspirin, visit Other Important Information For People Sick With Flu.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
Who should not be vaccinated with HPV vaccine?
What are the symptoms of viral gastroenteritis?
Symptoms usually appear within 12 to 48 hours after exposure to a gastroenteritis-causing virus and last for 1 to 3 days.
Some viruses cause symptoms that last longer.
How Is a Heart Murmur Treated?
A heart murmur isn't a disease.
It's an extra or unusual sound heard during the heartbeat.
Thus, murmurs themselves don't require treatment.
However, if an underlying condition is causing a heart murmur, your doctor may recommend treatment for that condition.
What is Rheumatoid arthritis RA?
Rheumatoid arthritis RA is an inflammatory disease that causes pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function in the joints.
What Are the Risks of a Heart Transplant?
Although heart transplant surgery is a life-saving measure, it has many risks.
Careful monitoring, treatment, and regular medical care can prevent or help manage some of these risks.
What should you do if you feel sick?
A U.S.
consular officer can help you find local medical care in a foreign country.
To contact the U.S.
embassy or consulate in the country you are visiting, call Overseas Citizens Services at:1-888-407-4747 if calling from the U.S.
or Canada, 00-1-202-501-4444 if calling from other countries, or visit websites of U.S.
Embassies, Consulates, and Diplomatic Mission to find the contact information for the local U.S.
Embassy of the country you are visiting.
What is Whipple disease?
Whipple disease is a rare bacterial infection that primarily affects the small intestine.
What Does Stress Testing Show?
Imaging stress tests show how well blood is flowing in the heart muscle and reveal parts of the heart that aren't contracting strongly.
They also can show the parts of the heart that aren't getting enough blood, as well as dead tissue in the heart, where no blood flows.
A heart attack can cause heart tissue to die..
What Is Coronary Heart Disease?
Coronary heart disease CHD is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque plak builds up inside the coronary arteries.
These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle.
How do I Contact the Rickettsial Zoonoses Branch at CDC?
The general public and healthcare providers should first call 1-800-CDC-INFO 1-800-232-4636 for questions regarding RMSF and other rickettsial diseases.
If a consultation with a CDC scientist specializing in rickettsial diseases is advised, your call will be appropriately forwarded.
What research is being done for Huntington's Disease?
Scientific investigations using electronic and other technologies enable scientists to see what the defective gene does to various structures in the brain and how it affects the body's chemistry and metabolism.
Laboratory animals are being bred in the hope of duplicating the clinical features of HD so that researchers can learn more about the symptoms and progression of HD.
Investigators are implanting fetal tissue in rodents and nonhuman primates with the hope of understanding, restoring, or replacing functions typically lost by neuronal degeneration in individuals with HD.
Related areas of investigation include excitotoxicity over-stimulation of cells by natural chemicals found in the brain, defective energy metabolism a defect in the mitochondria, oxidative stress normal metabolic activity in the brain that produces toxic compounds called free radicals, tropic factors natural chemical substances found in the human body that may protect against cell death.
What is Osteogenesis imperfecta OI?
Osteogenesis imperfecta OI is a disease that causes weak bones that break easily.
How common is IBS and who is affected?
Studies estimate IBS affects 3 to 20 percent of the adult population, with most studies ranging from 10 to 15 percent.
However, only 5 to 7 percent of the adult population has been diagnosed with the condition.
IBS affects about twice as many women as men and is most often found in people younger than age 45.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Patent Ductus Arteriosus?
A heart murmur may be the only sign that a baby has patent ductus arteriosus PDA.
A heart murmur is an extra or unusual sound heard during the heartbeat.
Heart murmurs also have other causes besides PDA, and most murmurs are harmless.
What are the signs and symptoms of liver failure?
jaundice, a condition that causes yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes.
What is Spina Bifida?
Spina bifida SB is a neural tube defect a disorder involving incomplete development of the brain, spinal cord, and/or their protective coverings caused by the failure of the fetus's spine to close properly during the first month of pregnancy.
Infants born with SB sometimes have an open lesion on their spine where significant damage to the nerves and spinal cord has occurred.
Although the spinal opening can be surgically repaired shortly after birth, the nerve damage is permanent, resulting in varying degrees of paralysis of the lower limbs.
Even when there is no lesion present there may be improperly formed or missing vertebrae and accompanying nerve damage.
In addition to physical and mobility difficulties, most individuals have some form of learning disability.
The types of SB are: myelomeningocele, the severest form, in which the spinal cord and its protective covering the meninges protrude from an opening in the spine; meningocele in which the spinal cord develops normally but the meninges and spinal fluid protrude from a spinal opening; closed neural tube defects, which consist of a group of defects in which development of the spinal cord is affected by malformations of the fat, bone, or meninges; and and occulta, the mildest form, in which one or more vertebrae are malformed and covered by a layer of skin.
SB may also cause bowel and bladder complications, and many children with SB have hydrocephalus excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the brain.
Do the 2013-2014 seasonal flu vaccines contain thimerosal?
The Food and Drug Administration FDA has approved several formulations of the seasonal flu vaccine, including multi-dose vials and single-dose units.
See Table of Approved Influenza Vaccines for the U.S.
2013 - 2014 Season.
Since seasonal influenza vaccine is produced in large quantities for annual immunization campaigns, some of the vaccine is produced in multi-dose vials, and contains thimerosal to safeguard against possible contamination of the vial once it is opened.
What is Dysgraphia?
Dysgraphia is a neurological disorder characterized by writing disabilities.
What research is being done for Mucolipidoses?
Discovery of the ML genes is enabling NINDS researchers to study the genes' function and will facilitate studies on drugs that may lead to effective treatments.
In addition, investigators at grantee institutions are conducting studies on an animal model, C aenorhabditis elegans, which is frequently used to determine the effects of genetic mutations.
Other grantees are using the fruit fly model, Drosophila, to study a mutation in the ML IV gene.
And one of the research teams involved in the discovery of the ML IV gene is conducting further genetic studies to explore the normal and abnormal functions of the ML IV gene.
Through these and other research efforts, scientists are optimistic that they will one day discover treatments or even prevention strategies for the MLs.
What did the study look at?
Finally, for each hypothetical situation CDC calculated how much perchlorate would need to be in water to cause the mixed formula to exceed the Environmental Protection Agency's reference dose, a level set to estimate the daily exposure levels over a lifetime that would cause no ill effects.
What is Wilson disease caused by?
Wilson disease is caused by an inherited autosomal recessive mutation, or change, in the ATP7B gene.
Is there any treatment for Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis?
Treatment for ADEM is targeted at suppressing inflammation in the brain using anti-inflammatory drugs.
Most individuals respond to several days of intravenous corticosteroids such as methylprednisolone, followed by oral corticosteroid treatment.
When corticosteroids fail to work, plasmapheresis or intravenous immunoglobulin therapy are possible secondary treatment options that are reported to help in some severe cases.
Additional treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
What research is being done for Ohtahara Syndrome?
The NINDS conducts and supports an extensive research program on seizures and seizure-related disorders.
Much of this research is aimed at increasing scientific understanding of these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and potentially cure them.
How will I know if I have an infection?
Redness or pain around a catheter tube in your vein or bladder or wound cut.
Is there any treatment for Septo-Optic Dysplasia?
Treatment for SOD is symptomatic.
Hormone deficiencies may be treated with hormone replacement therapy.
The optical problems associated with SOD are generally not treatable.
Vision, physical, and occupational therapies may be required.
What Is Endocarditis?
IE can develop quickly or slowly; it depends on what type of germ is causing it and whether you have an underlying heart problem.
When IE develops quickly, it's called acute infective endocarditis.
When it develops slowly, it's called subacute infective endocarditis.
What research is being done for Periventricular Leukomalacia?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on brain injuries such as PVL.
Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.
What should you expect during Cardioversion?
The electrodes will be attached to a cardioversion machine.
The machine will record your heart's electrical activity and send low-energy shocks through the pads to restore a normal heart rhythm.
What Can I Do to Prevent and Prepare for Concussions?
Here are some steps you can take to prevent concussions in school and ensure the best outcome for your students:
What is Lactose intolerance?
Lactose intolerance is a condition in which people have digestive symptoms - such as bloating, gas, and diarrhea - after consuming milk or milk products.
Are There Special Risks Associated With Epilepsy?
Although most people with epilepsy lead full, active lives, they are at special risk for two life-threatening conditions: status epilepticus and sudden unexplained death in epilepsy SUDEP.
What Causes Rheumatoid Arthritis?
Scientists still do not know exactly what causes the immune system to turn against the body's own tissues in rheumatoid arthritis, but research over the last few years has begun to piece together the factors involved.
What is Myotonic MD?
Myotonic MD is the disorder's most common adult form and is typified by prolonged muscle spasms, cataracts, cardiac abnormalities, and endocrine disturbances.
How are the dystonias classified?
Cervical dystonia, also called spasmodic torticollis or torticollis, is the most common of the focal dystonias.
In cervical dystonia, the muscles in the neck that control the position of the head are affected, causing the head to turn to one side or be pulled forward or backward.
Sometimes the shoulder is pulled up.
Cervical dystonia can occur at any age, although most individuals first experience symptoms in middle age.
It often begins slowly and usually reaches a plateau over a few months or years.
About 10 percent of those with torticollis may experience a spontaneous remission, but unfortunately the remission may not be lasting.
What Is Lymphocytopenia?
These cells are made in the bone marrow along with other kinds of blood cells.
Lymphocytes help protect your body from infection.
Low numbers of lymphocytes can raise your risk of infection.
Am I at risk for high blood pressure?
Drink more than a moderate amount of alcohol.
A moderate amount of alcohol is 2 drinks a day for men or 1 drink a day for women.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus - the opening through which stool leaves the body.
What is Hypercalciuria?
Hypercalciuria is a disorder that causes too much calcium to be lost through the urine, which makes the calcium unavailable for building bone.
What is Nemaline myopathy?
Nemaline myopathy is the most common congenital myopathy.
Who Is at Risk for Lymphocytopenia?
People who have had steroid therapy or radiation or chemotherapy treatments for cancer also are at increased risk.
For more information, go to What Causes Lymphocytopenia?.
How do I know if I have aSalmonella infection?
A person infected with Salmonella usually has a fever, abdominal cramps, and diarrhea beginning 12 to 72 hours after consuming a contaminated food or beverage.
The illness usually lasts 4 to 7 days, and most persons recover without antibiotic treatment.
However, the diarrhea can be severe, and the person may be ill enough to require hospitalization.
What Is Catheter Ablation?
During catheter ablation, a series of catheters thin, flexible wires are put into a blood vessel in your arm, groin upper thigh, or neck.
The wires are guided into your heart through the blood vessel.
How common is constipation in children?
Constipation is quite common in children.
Almost 5 percent of pediatric office visits and 25 percent of referrals to gastroenterology specialists - doctors who specialize in digestive diseases - are for constipation in children.
What research is being done for Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts CMT research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH and also supports CMT research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Ongoing research includes efforts to identify more of the mutant genes and proteins that cause the various disease subtypes.
This research includes studies in the laboratory to discover the mechanisms of nerve degeneration and muscle atrophy, and clinical studies to find therapies to slow down or even reverse nerve degeneration and muscle atrophy.
What is Swine Influenza?
Swine Influenza swine flu is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by type A influenza virus that regularly causes outbreaks of influenza in pigs.
Swine flu viruses do not usually infect humans, but rare human infections have occurred.
For more information about swine influenza infections in humans, see Variant Influenza Viruses in Humans.
Swine flu viruses can cause high levels of illness in pig herds, but cause few deaths in pigs.
Swine influenza viruses can circulate among swine throughout the year, but most outbreaks occur during the late fall and winter months similar to outbreaks in humans.
What is Blood pressure?
Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries.
Can a breastfeeding mother receive the flu shot or the nasal spray?
Yes.
Seasonal flu vaccines should be given to breastfeeding mothers and breastfeeding women can receive either the shot or the nasal spray form of the vaccine.
Breastfeeding is fully compatible with flu vaccination, and preventing the flu in mothers can reduce the chance that the infant will get the flu.
This is especially important for infants younger than 6 months old, since they are too young to be vaccinated.
What research is being done for Amyotrophic?
Scientists are seeking to understand the mechanisms that selectively trigger motor neurons to degenerate in ALS, and to find effective approaches to halt the processes leading to cell death.
This work includes studies in animals to identify the molecular means by which ALS-causing gene mutations lead to the destruction of neurons.
To this end, scientists have developed models of ALS in a variety of animal species, including fruit flies, zebrafish, and rodents.
Initially, these genetically modified animal models focused on mutations in the SOD1 gene but more recently, models harboring other ALS-causing mutations also have been developed.
Research in these models suggests that depending on the gene mutation, motor neuron death is caused by a variety of cellular defects, including in the processing of RNA molecules and recycling of proteins, as well as impaired energy metabolism, and hyperactivation of motor neurons.
Increasing evidence also suggests that various types of glial support cells and inflammation cells of the nervous system play an important role in the disease.
What is Narcolepsy?
Narcolepsy is a chronic brain disorder that involves poor control of sleep-wake cycles.
Who Needs a Blood Transfusion?
An illness that causes anemia, such as kidney disease or cancer.
Radiation treatment and some medicines also can cause anemia.
There are many types of anemia, including aplastic, Fanconi, hemolytic, iron-deficiency, and sickle cell anemias and thalassemia thal-ah-SE-me-ah.
Is there any treatment for Psychogenic Movement?
No single test can confirm psychogenic movement, which can prove difficult to diagnose.
Physicians must rule out co-existing conditions and other recognizable movement disorders.
There may be fluctuations during a neurological exam - particularly an increase of movement following attention and suggestion an external influence on the will of the patient, and a decrease when the person is distracted.
Electromyography EMG may be used to measure bursts of electrical activity from the brain and/or spinal cord to a peripheral nerve root found in the arms and legs that controls muscles during contraction and at rest.
Electroencephalography EEG can correlate the movement and detect any changes in electrical activity patterns produced by the brain.
Physicians also look for marked improvement in symptoms following psychotherapy, use of a placebo a medicine with no specific pharmacological benefit for the disorder being treated but given to see if it produces psychological or physical benefits, or suggestion.
What should you expect during Coronary Angiography?
The animation below shows the process of coronary angiography.
Click the start button to play the animation.
Written and spoken explanations are provided with each frame.
Use the buttons in the lower right corner to pause, restart, or replay the animation, or use the scroll bar below the buttons to move through the frames.
What should you expect before Using a Holter or Event Monitor?
A standard EKG won't detect heart rhythm problems that don't happen during the test.
For this reason, your doctor may give you a Holter or event monitor.
These monitors are portable.
You can wear one while doing your normal daily activities.
This increases the chance of recording symptoms that only occur once in a while.
How can Whipple disease be prevented?
Experts have not yet found a way to prevent Whipple disease.
What is Getting a flu shot?
Getting a flu shot is the first and most important step in protecting against flu.
What research is being done to better understand these syndromes?
The NINDS supports The Vasculitis Clinical Research Consortium VCRC, a network of academic medical centers, patient support organizations, and clinical research resources dedicated to conducting clinical research and improving the care of individuals with vasculitis, including Wegener's granulomatosis, microscopic polyangiitis, Churg-Strauss syndrome, polyarteritis nodosa, Takayasu's arteritis, and temporal arteritis.
The medical centers are located at Boston University School of Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, The Johns Hopkins Vasculitis Center, and Mayo Clinic College of Medicine.
The Consortium's internet site provides information about clinical research and clinical trial opportunities and helps individuals connect with expert doctors and patient support groups.
What is Neurosyphilis?
Neurosyphilis is a disease of the coverings of the brain, the brain itself, or the spinal cord.
What should you expect while Using a Holter or Event Monitor?
Your experience while using a Holter or event monitor depends on the type of monitor you have.
However, most monitors have some factors in common.
How can I report a serious side effect of RotaTeq, Rotarix, or other vaccine?
Adverse reactions and other problems related to vaccines should be reported to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, which is maintained by FDA and CDC.
For a copy of the vaccine reporting form, call 1-800-822-7967 or report online to www.vaers.hhs.gov.
Why is screening for critical congenital heart defects important?
Some babies born with a heart defect can appear healthy at first and can be sent home with their families before their heart defect is detected.
It has been estimated that at least 300 infants with an unrecognized CCHD are discharged each year from newborn nurseries in the United States.
These babies are at risk for having serious problems within the first few days or weeks of life and often require emergency care.
How is Zollinger-Ellison syndrome treated?
PPIs stop the mechanism that pumps acid into the stomach, helping to relieve peptic ulcer pain and promote healing.
A health care provider may prescribe people who have Zollinger-Ellison syndrome higher-than-normal doses of PPIs to control the acid production.
Studies show that PPIs may increase the risk of hip, wrist, and spine fractures when a person takes them long term or in high doses, so it's important for people to discuss risks versus benefits with their health care provider.
Can Epilepsy be Prevented?
Many cases of epilepsy can be prevented by wearing seatbelts and bicycle helmets, putting children in car seats, and other measures that prevent head injury and other trauma.
Prescribing medication after first or second seizures or febrile seizures also may help prevent epilepsy in some cases.
Good prenatal care, including treatment of high blood pressure and infections during pregnancy, can prevent brain damage in the developing baby that may lead to epilepsy and other neurological problems later.
Treating cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure, infections, and other disorders that can affect the brain during adulthood and aging also may prevent many cases of epilepsy.
Finally, identifying the genes for many neurological disorders can provide opportunities for genetic screening and prenatal diagnosis that may ultimately prevent many cases of epilepsy.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
Pregnancy guidelines can be found in the Travelers' YellowBook.
What is Chronic Hepatitis B?
Chronic Hepatitis B is a global public health issue.
What repellent should I use?
CDC recommends a variety of effective repellents.
The most important step is to pick one and use it.
There are those that can protect you for a short while in the backyard or a long while in the woods.
DEET, picaridin, IR3535 and the plant-based oil of lemon eucalyptus are all repellents recommended by CDC.
All contain an EPA-registered active ingredient and have been evaluated for efficacy and safety.
EPA has a long listing of every repellent brand in the US.
There are good repellents for every budget, age and preference.
Excuse gone.
How are foodborne illnesses prevented?
Foods should be cooked long enough and at a high enough temperature to kill the harmful bacteria that cause illnesses.
A meat thermometer should be used to ensure foods are cooked to the appropriate internal temperature: 145 degrees for roasts, steaks, and chops of beef, veal, pork, and lamb, followed by 3 minutes of rest time after the meat is removed from the heat source.
How does bowel control work?
Circular muscles called sphincters close tightly like rubber bands around the anus until stool is ready to be released.
Pelvic floor muscles also help with bowel control.
What are the symptoms?
Dystonia can affect many different parts of the body, and the symptoms are different depending upon the form of dystonia.
Early symptoms may include a foot cramp or a tendency for one foot to turn or drag - either sporadically or after running or walking some distance - or a worsening in handwriting after writing several lines.
In other instances, the neck may turn or pull involuntarily, especially when the person is tired or under stress.
Sometimes both eyes might blink rapidly and uncontrollably; other times, spasms will cause the eyes to close.
Symptoms may also include tremor or difficulties speaking.
In some cases, dystonia can affect only one specific action, while allowing others to occur unimpeded.
For example, a musician may have dystonia when using her hand to play an instrument, but not when using the same hand to type.
The initial symptoms can be very mild and may be noticeable only after prolonged exertion, stress, or fatigue.
Over a period of time, the symptoms may become more noticeable or widespread; sometimes, however, there is little or no progression.
Dystonia typically is not associated with problems thinking or understanding, but depression and anxiety may be present.
What Treatments Are Available?
Although there is no cure for osteoporosis, several medications are available for the prevention and/or treatment of osteoporosis, including: bisphosphonates; estrogen agonists/antagonists also called selective estrogen receptor modulators or SERMS; calcitonin; parathyroid hormone; estrogen therapy; hormone therapy; and a recently approved RANK ligand RANKL inhibitor.
What is the prognosis for Multiple System Atrophy with Orthostatic Hypotension?
Most individuals with multiple system atrophy with orthostatic hypotension die within 7 to 10 years after the onset of symptoms.
A problem with the respiratory system is the most common cause of death.
What is Targeted therapy?
Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells.
What happens during a Pap test?
While you lie on the exam table, the doctor or nurse will put a medical tool called a speculum into your vagina and open it to see your cervix.
The doctor or nurse will use a special brush to collect a few cells from your cervix.
These cells are sent to a lab to be checked by an expert.
How is childhood overweight and obesity measured?
Body mass index BMI is a measure used to determine childhood overweight and obesity.
It is calculated using a child's weight and height.
BMI does not measure body fat directly, but it is a reasonable indicator of body fatness for most children and teens.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
How Many Health Care Workers Got Vaccinated Last Season?
Comprehensive, work-site intervention strategies that include education, promotion, and easy access to vaccination at no cost for multiple days can increase health care worker vaccination coverage.
Educating health care workers on the benefits and risks of influenza vaccination, providing vaccinations in the workplace at convenient locations and times, and providing influenza vaccination at no cost are effective strategies to increase coverage among health care workers in all settings.
What is Multi-Infarct Dementia?
Multi-infarct dementia MID is a common cause of memory loss in the elderly.
MID is caused by multiple strokes disruption of blood flow to the brain.
Disruption of blood flow leads to damaged brain tissue.
Some of these strokes may occur without noticeable clinical symptoms.
Doctors refer to these as 'silent strokes.' An individual having a silent stroke may not even know it is happening, but over time, as more areas of the brain are damaged and more small blood vessels are blocked, the symptoms of MID begin to appear.
MID can be diagnosed by an MRI or CT of the brain, along with a neurological examination.
Symptoms include confusion or problems with short-term memory; wandering, or getting lost in familiar places; walking with rapid, shuffling steps; losing bladder or bowel control; laughing or crying inappropriately; having difficulty following instructions; and having problems counting money and making monetary transactions.
MID, which typically begins between the ages of 60 and 75, affects men more often than women.
Because the symptoms of MID are so similar to Alzheimer's disease, it can be difficult for a doctor to make a firm diagnosis.
Since the diseases often occur together, making a single diagnosis of one or the other is even more problematic.
What is Iniencephaly?
Iniencephaly is a rare birth defect caused by improper closure of the neural tube the part of a human embryo that becomes the brain and spinal cord during fetal development.
Is there any treatment for Gerstmann's Syndrome?
There is no cure for Gerstmann's syndrome.
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
Occupational and speech therapies may help diminish the dysgraphia and apraxia.
In addition, calculators and word processors may help school children cope with the symptoms of the disorder.
What is Bone marrow?
Bone marrow is a sponge-like tissue inside the bones.
What is Kleine-Levin Syndrome?
Kleine-Levin syndrome is a rare disorder that primarily affects adolescent males approximately 70 percent of those with Kleine-Levin syndrome are male.
It is characterized by recurring but reversible periods of excessive sleep up to 20 hours per day.
Symptoms occur as episodes, typically lasting a few days to a few weeks.
Episode onset is often abrupt, and may be associated with flu-like symptoms.
Excessive food intake, irritability, childishness, disorientation, hallucinations, and an abnormally uninhibited sex drive may be observed during episodes.
Mood can be depressed as a consequence, but not a cause, of the disorder.
Affected individuals are completely normal between episodes, although they may not be able to remember afterwards everything that happened during the episode.
It may be weeks or more before symptoms reappear.
Symptoms may be related to malfunction of the hypothalamus and thalamus, parts of the brain that govern appetite and sleep.
What is Primary hemochromatosis caused by?
Primary hemochromatosis is caused by a defect in the genes that control how much iron you absorb from food.
Who Is at High Risk for Developing Diabetes?
Racial/ethnic background in a high-risk group African American, Hispanic/Latino, American Indian/Alaska Native, Asian American, or Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander.
What is Agnosia?
Agnosia is a rare disorder characterized by an inability to recognize and identify objects or persons.
People with agnosia may have difficulty recognizing the geometric features of an object or face or may be able to perceive the geometric features but not know what the object is used for or whether a face is familiar or not.
Agnosia can be limited to one sensory modality such as vision or hearing.
For example, a person may have difficulty in recognizing an object as a cup or identifying a sound as a cough.
Agnosia can result from strokes, dementia, developmental disorders, or other neurological conditions.
It typically results from damage to specific brain areas in the occipital or parietal lobes of the brain.
People with agnosia may retain their cognitive abilities in other areas.
Want to learn more?
Physical activity can increase the number of calories your body uses for energy or burns off.
The burning of calories through physical activity, combined with reducing the number of calories you eat, creates a calorie deficit that can help with weight loss.
When are workers at risk of infection?
Ticks are usually more active in the months of April through October and peak in the summer months of June through August.
The time of year when ticks are active may vary with the geographic region and climate.
Outdoor workers should be extra careful to protect themselves in the late spring and summer when immature ticks are most active.
What is A biopsy of an affected organ?
A biopsy of an affected organ is the best way for your doctor to make a firm diagnosis.
What Is a Hip Replacement?
Hip replacement, or arthroplasty, is a surgical procedure in which the diseased parts of the hip joint are removed and replaced with new, artificial parts.
These artificial parts are called the prosthesis.
The goals of hip replacement surgery include increasing mobility, improving the function of the hip joint, and relieving pain.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, 332,000 total hip replacements are performed in the United States each year.
What is Argyrophilic grain disease?
Argyrophilic grain disease is a common, late-onset degenerative disease characterized by tau deposits called argyrophilic grains in brain regions involved in memory and emotion.
How do I Prevent and Control Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factors?
To reduce your risk of CHD and heart attack, try to control each risk factor you can.
The good news is that many lifestyle changes help control several CHD risk factors at the same time.
For example, physical activity may lower your blood pressure, help control diabetes and prediabetes, reduce stress, and help control your weight.
What causes ALS?
For example, the discovery of certain genetic mutations involved in ALS suggests that changes in the processing of RNA molecules involved with functions including gene regulation and activity may lead to ALS-related motor neuron degeneration.
Other gene mutations implicate defects in protein recycling.
And still others point to possible defects in the structure and shape of motor neurons, as well as increased susceptibility to environmental toxins.
Overall, it is becoming increasingly clear that a number of cellular defects can lead to motor neuron degeneration in ALS.
Can the disorder be prevented?
Folic acid, also called folate, is an important vitamin in the development of a healthy fetus.
Although taking this vitamin cannot guarantee having a healthy baby, it can help.
Recent studies have shown that by adding folic acid to their diets, women of childbearing age significantly reduce the risk of having a child with a neural tube defect, such as spina bifida.
Therefore, it is recommended that all women of childbearing age consume 400 micrograms of folic acid daily.
Foods high in folic acid include dark green vegetables, egg yolks, and some fruits.
Many foods - such as some breakfast cereals, enriched breads, flours, pastas, rice, and other grain products - are now fortified with folic acid.
Many multivitamins contain the recommended dosage of folic acid as well.
Can I get the nasal nose spray instead of the shot?
The flu vaccine can be given as a nasal spray or a shot.
You may get the nasal spray if you:
What is Hereditary hemochromatosis?
Hereditary hemochromatosis is a genetic disorder present in about 1 million Americans, although few individuals at any point in time have symptomatic iron overload disease.
How Can Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency Be Prevented?
For more information about how to quit smoking, go to the Health Topics Smoking and Your Heart article and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Your Guide to a Healthy Heart.
Although these resources focus on heart health, they include basic information about how to quit smoking.
Why strength training?
Research has shown that strengthening exercises are both safe and effective for women and men of all ages, including those who are not in perfect health.
In fact, people with health concerns - including heart disease or arthritis - often benefit the most from an exercise program that includes lifting weights a few times each week.
What if peptic ulcers don't heal?
When you have finished your medicines, your doctor will do a breath or stool test to be sure the H.
pylori infection is gone.
Sometimes, the H.
pylori germ is still there, even after a person has taken all the medicines correctly.
If that happens, your doctor will prescribe different antibiotics to get rid of the infection and cure your ulcers.
Can I get giardiasis from my pet?
The risk of humans acquiring Giardia infection from dogs or cats is small.
The exact type of Giardia that infects humans is usually not the same type that infects dogs and cats.
What is Multifocal motor neuropathy?
Multifocal motor neuropathy is a progressive muscle disorder characterized by muscle weakness in the hands, with differences from one side of the body to the other in the specific muscles involved.
Is there any treatment for Dyslexia?
The main focus of treatment should be on the specific learning problems of affected individuals.
The usual course is to modify teaching methods and the educational environment to meet the specific needs of the individual with dyslexia.
What is Amniocentesis?
Amniocentesis is a test that you may have during pregnancy.
What is Neuropathic pain?
Neuropathic pain is a primary target of NINDS-sponsored studies aimed at developing more effective therapies for symptoms of peripheral neuropathy.
What is Sleep apnea usually?
Sleep apnea usually is a chronic ongoing condition that disrupts your sleep.
What should you expect after Cardiac Catheterization?
After cardiac catheterization, you will be moved to a special care area.
You will rest there for several hours or overnight.
During that time, you'll have to limit your movement to avoid bleeding from the site where the catheter was inserted.
How will I know whether I need a liver transplant?
Your doctor will decide whether you need to go to a liver transplant center to be evaluated by a liver transplant team.
The team will include liver transplant surgeons; liver specialists, called hepatologists; nurses; social workers; and other health care professionals.
The transplant team will examine you and run blood tests, x rays, and other tests to help decide whether you would benefit from a transplant.
What is the prognosis for Anencephaly?
The prognosis for babies born with anencephaly is extremely poor.
If the infant is not stillborn, then he or she will usually die within a few hours or days after birth.
What is Rasmussen's Encephalitis?
Rasmussen's encephalitis is a rare, chronic inflammatory neurological disease that usually affects only one hemisphere of the brain.
It usually occurs in children under the age of 10 more rarely in adolescents and adults, and is characterized by frequent and severe seizures, loss of motor skills and speech, paralysis on one side of the body hemiparesis, inflammation of the brain encephalitis, and mental deterioration.
Most individuals with Rasmussen's encephalitis will experience frequent seizures and progressive brain damage in the affected hemisphere of the brain over the course of the first 8 to 12 months, and then enter a phase of permanent, but stable, neurological deficits.
Rasmussen's encephalitis has features of an autoimmune disease in which immune system cells enter the brain and cause inflammation and damage.
Research is ongoing into the causes of this rare disease.
What Is Hemochromatosis?
Hemochromatosis occurs when the body absorbs too much iron from foods and other sources such as vitamins containing iron.
This disease causes extra iron to gradually build up in the body's tissues and organs, a term called iron overload.
If this iron buildup is untreated, it can, over many years, damage the body's organs.
Who is at risk of developing carpal tunnel syndrome?
Women are three times more likely than men to develop carpal tunnel syndrome, perhaps because the carpal tunnel itself may be smaller in women than in men.
The dominant hand is usually affected first and produces the most severe pain.
Persons with diabetes or other metabolic disorders that directly affect the body's nerves and make them more susceptible to compression are also at high risk.
Carpal tunnel syndrome usually occurs only in adults.
How Are Varicose Veins Diagnosed?
Doctors often diagnose varicose veins based on a physical exam alone.
Sometimes tests or procedures are used to find out the extent of the problem or to rule out other conditions.
Q: Will the vaccine cause fertility issues?
A: There are no data to suggest that getting HPV vaccine will have an effect on future fertility.
In fact, getting vaccinated and protecting against cervical cancer can protect a woman's ability to get pregnant and have healthy babies.
It is possible that the treatment of cervical cancer could leave a woman unable to have children.
It is also possible that treatment for cervical pre-cancer could put a woman at risk for problems with her cervix, which could cause preterm delivery or other problems.
.
What is the prognosis for Mucopolysaccharidoses?
The mucopolysaccharidoses syndromes share many clinical features but have varying degrees of severity.
Most individuals with a mucopolysaccharidosis syndrome generally experience a period of normal development followed by a decline in physical and mental function.
Longevity is dependent upon the particular syndrome.
For example, children with a form of mucopolysaccharidosis called Hurler syndrome often die before age 10 from obstructive airway disease, respiratory infections, or cardiac complications.
A child with the type known as Scheie syndrome can live into adulthood, while one with a mild case of the type known as Hunter syndrome may live into his or her 50s or beyond.
What is the prognosis for Prosopagnosia?
Prosopagnosia can be socially crippling.
Individuals with the disorder often have difficulty recognizing family members and close friends.
They often use other ways to identify people, such as relying on voice, clothing, or unique physical attributes, but these are not as effective as recognizing a face.
Children with congenital prosopagnosia are born with the disability and have never had a time when they could recognize faces.
Greater awareness of autism, and the autism spectrum disorders, which involve communication impairments such as prosopagnosia, is likely to make the disorder less overlooked in the future.
What should you expect during Thoracentesis?
Thoracentesis is done at a doctor's office or hospital.
The entire procedure including preparation usually takes 10 - 15 minutes, but the needle or tube is in your chest for only a few minutes during that time.
If you have a lot of fluid in your pleural space, the procedure may take up to 45 minutes.
What is Todd's Paralysis?
Todd's paralysis is a neurological condition experienced by individuals with epilepsy, in which a seizure is followed by a brief period of temporary paralysis.
The paralysis may be partial or complete but usually occurs on just one side of the body.
The paralysis can last from half an hour to 36 hours, with an average of 15 hours, at which point it resolves completely.
Todd's paralysis may also affect speech and vision.
Scientists don't know what causes Todd's paralysis.
Current theories propose biological processes in the brain that involve a slow down in either the energy output of neurons or in the motor centers of the brain.
It is important to distinguish Todd's paralysis from a stroke, which it can resemble, because a stroke requires completely different treatment.
How Is Pulmonary Hypertension Treated?
PH is treated with medicines, procedures, and other therapies.
Treatment will depend on what type of PH you have and its severity.
For more information, go to Types of Pulmonary Hypertension..
What research is being done for Tethered Spinal Cord Syndrome?
The NINDS conducts and supports research on disorders of the spinal cord.
The goals of this research are to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure these disorders.
What is Phantom rectum?
Phantom rectum is the feeling of needing to have a bowel movement even though the rectum is not present.
Who Is at Risk for Restless Legs Syndrome?
For example, pregnancy is a risk factor for RLS.
It usually occurs during the last 3 months of pregnancy.
The disorder usually improves or goes away after giving birth.
Some women may continue to have symptoms after giving birth.
Other women may develop RLS again later in life.
What is A CRT device?
A CRT device is a type of pacemaker.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Hypersensitivity Pneumonitis?
Signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity pneumonitis HP depend on whether the disease is acute short-term or chronic ongoing.
When is my baby ready to eat other foods?
Feed your baby breast milk only no water, no juice, no non-human milk, and no foods.
Who Treats It?
Others.
Orthopaedic surgeons, neurologists, and otolaryngologists doctors who specialize in ear, nose, and throat disorders may be called on to evaluate specialized symptoms.
How Is Atelectasis Treated?
The main goals of treating atelectasis are to treat the cause of the condition and to reexpand the collapsed lung tissue.
Treatment may vary based on the underlying cause of the atelectasis.
What causes foodborne illnesses?
The majority of foodborne illnesses are caused by harmful bacteria and viruses.
Some parasites and chemicals also cause foodborne illnesses.
What is Osteogenesis imperfecta OI?
Osteogenesis imperfecta OI is a genetic disorder characterized by bones that break easily, often from little or no apparent trauma.
What is Acid Lipase Disease ?
Wolman's disease also known as acid lipase deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder marked by the buildup of cholesteryl esters normally a tranport form of cholesterol that brings nutrients into the cells and carries out waste and triglycerides a chemical form in which fats exist in the body.
Infants with the disorder appear normal at birth but quickly develop progressive mental deterioration, low muscle tone, jaundice, anemia, vomiting, malnourishment, gastrointestinal problems, and calcium deposits in the adrenal glands, causing them to harden.
Affected children also develop an enlarged liver and grossly enlarged spleen, and the abdomen is distended.
Both male and female infants are affected by the disorder.
What is A pacemaker?
A pacemaker is a small device that's placed under the skin of your chest or abdomen.
What Is the Focus of This Year's Event?
For WNTD 2014, WHO and its partners are calling upon countries to raise taxes on tobacco products.
This recommendation is among several actions also identified in the 2014 Surgeon General's Report - The Health Consequences of Smoking: 50 Years of Progress to more quickly and dramatically reduce tobacco use.
What is the prognosis for Farber's Disease?
Most children with the classic form of Farber's disease die by age 2, usually from lung disease.
Individuals having a milder form of the disease may live into their teenage years.
Who Needs an Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator?
Some people who have heart failure may need a CRT-D device.
This device combines a type of pacemaker called a cardiac resynchronization therapy CRT device with a defibrillator.
CRT-D devices help both ventricles work together.
This allows them to do a better job of pumping blood out of the heart.
How can the CHANGE tool be used?
In addition, CHANGE helps communities to monitor and track progress across one or more years by using a 1-to-5 rating scale that allows users to measure incremental changes.
CHANGE users have noted how helpful the tool is for:
What Is Celiac Disease?
Celiac disease, sometimes called sprue or celiac sprue, is an inherited intestinal disorder in which the body cannot tolerate gluten.
Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, barley, farina, and bulgur.
When people with celiac disease eat foods containing gluten, their immune systems respond by attacking and damaging the lining of the small intestine.
The small intestine is responsible for absorbing nutrients from food into the bloodstream for the body to use.
When the lining is damaged, so is its ability to absorb these nutrients.
How Can Diabetic Heart Disease Be Prevented?
Taking action to control risk factors can help prevent or delay heart disease in people who have diabetes and in those who don't.
Your risk of heart disease increases with the number of risk factors you have.
What are ways Hepatitis C is not spread?
Hepatitis C virus is not spread by sharing eating utensils, breastfeeding, hugging, kissing, holding hands, coughing, or sneezing.
It is also not spread through food or water.
What is the prognosis for Ataxias and Cerebellar or Spinocerebellar Degeneration?
The prognosis for individuals with ataxia and cerebellar/spinocerebellar degeneration varies depending on its underlying cause.
Are there any side effects?
The PPSV shot is very safe.
Some people may have redness or pain where they get the shot.
What is GERD?
Gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD is a more serious, chronic - or long lasting - form of GER.
GER that occurs more than twice a week for a few weeks could be GERD, which over time can lead to more serious health problems.
If caregivers suspect their child or adolescent has GERD, they should take their child or adolescent to see a pediatrician - a doctor who specializes in treating children and adolescents.
What is Bladder Cancer Bladder cancer?
Bladder Cancer Bladder cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the tissues of the bladder.
Why is a flexible sigmoidoscopy performed?
A health care provider may also perform a flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening test for colon cancer.
Screening is testing for a disease when a person has no symptoms.
Screening may find diseases at an early stage, when there may be a better chance of curing the disease.
What Is Rheumatoid Arthritis?
Individuals with rheumatoid arthritis often experience pain, swelling, and stiffness in their joints, especially those in the hands and feet.
Motion can be limited in the affected joints, curtailing one's ability to accomplish even the most basic everyday tasks.
About one-quarter of those with rheumatoid arthritis develop nodules bumps that grow under the skin, usually close to the joints.
Fatigue, anemia low red blood cell count, neck pain, and dry eyes and dry mouth also can occur in individuals with the disease.
What is The DASH eating plan?
The DASH eating plan is a good healthy eating plan, even for those who don't have high blood pressure.
When should my child be vaccinated?
Teens who got MCV4 for the first time when were 13, 14 or 15 years old should still get the booster shot when they are 16 years old.
If your older teens didn't get an MCV4 shot at all, talk to their doctor about getting it as soon as possible.
This is really important if they are about to move into a college dorm or go into the military.
How Is Coronary Angioplasty Done?
Before you have percutaneous coronary intervention PCI, your doctor will need to know the location and extent of the blockages in your coronary heart arteries.
To find this information, your doctor will use coronary angiography an-jee-OG-rah-fee.
This test uses dye and special x rays to show the insides of your arteries.
Is there any treatment for Leigh's Disease?
The most common treatment for Leigh's disease is thiamine or Vitamin B1.
Oral sodium bicarbonate or sodium citrate may also be prescribed to manage lactic acidosis.
Researchers are currently testing dichloroacetate to establish its effectiveness in treating lactic acidosis.
In individuals who have the X-linked form of Leigh's disease, a high-fat, low-carbohydrate diet may be recommended.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Is there any treatment for Frontotemporal Dementia?
No treatment has been shown to slow the progression of FTD.
Behavior modification may help control unacceptable or dangerous behaviors.
Aggressive, agitated, or dangerous behaviors could require medication.
Anti-depressants have been shown to improve some symptoms.
What is Spinal stenosis?
Spinal stenosis is a narrowing of spaces in the spine backbone that results in pressure on the spinal cord and/or nerve roots.
Who is more likely to have lactose intolerance?
In the United States, some ethnic and racial populations are more likely to have lactose intolerance than others, including African Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, American Indians, and Asian Americans.
The condition is least common among Americans of European descent.
What are primary and metastatic tumors?
Metastatic, or secondary, tumors in the CNS are caused by cancer cells that break away from the primary tumor that developed in a non-CNS part of the body.
These tumors are named after the type of cancer that causes them.
Metastastic tumors also called metastases to the brain occur in about one-fourth of all cancers that develop in other parts of the body, such as cancer of the lung, breast, or kidneys; or melanoma, a form of skin cancer.
They are more common than primary tumors and occur more often in adults than in children.
Who Needs a Chest X Ray?
Doctors may recommend chest x rays for people who have symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, chronic cough a cough that lasts a long time, or fever.
The test can help find the cause of these symptoms.
What research is being done for Myotonia?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke supports and conducts an extensive research program on neuromuscular disorders.
The goals of this research are to learn more about these disorders and to find ways to treat, prevent, and cure them.
How Is Sickle Cell Anemia Treated?
Infants who have been diagnosed with sickle cell anemia through newborn screening are treated with antibiotics to prevent infections and receive needed vaccinations.
Their parents are educated about the disease and how to manage it.
These initial treatment steps have greatly improved the outcome for children who have sickle cell anemia.
DoesStachybotrys chartarumStachybotrys atra cause acute idiopathic pulmonary hemorrhage among infants?
To date, a possible association between acute idiopathic pulmonary hemorrhage among infants and Stachybotrys chartarum Stachybotrys atra has not been proved.
Further studies are needed to determine what causes acute idiopathic hemorrhage.
How do I Avoid Portion Size Pitfalls to Help Manage Your Weight?
When eating at many restaurants, it's hard to miss that portion sizes have gotten larger in the last few years.
The trend has also spilled over into the grocery store and vending machines, where a bagel has become a BAGEL and an individual bag of chips can easily feed more than one.
Research shows that people unintentionally consume more calories when faced with larger portions.
This can mean significant excess calorie intake, especially when eating high-calorie foods.
Here are some tips to help you avoid some common portion-size pitfalls.
Can wigs or hair pieces spread lice?
Head lice and their eggs nits soon perish if separated from their human host.
Adult head lice can live only a day or so off the human head without blood for feeding.
Nymphs young head lice can live only for several hours without feeding on a human.
Nits head lice eggs generally die within a week away from their human host and cannot hatch at a temperature lower than that close to the human scalp.
For these reasons, the risk of transmission of head lice from a wig or other hairpiece is extremely small, particularly if the wig or hairpiece has not been worn within the preceding 48 hours by someone who is actively infested with live head lice.
What do People With Celiac Disease Need to Know About Osteoporosi?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33578320.xml:
What is PORENCEPHALY?
PORENCEPHALY is an extremely rare disorder of the central nervous system involving a cyst or cavity in a cerebral hemisphere.
Why are people born before 1957 exempt from receiving MMR vaccine?
People born before 1957 lived through several years of epidemic measles before the first measles vaccine was licensed.
As a result, these people are very likely to have had the measles disease.
Surveys suggest that 95% to 98% of those born before 1957 are immune to measles.
Note: The 1957 rule applies only to measles and mumps - it does NOT apply to rubella.
What is Presymptomatic Testing?
There are many complicating factors that reflect the complexity of diagnosing HD.
In a small number of individuals with HD - 1 to 3 percent - no family history of HD can be found.
Some individuals may not be aware of their genetic legacy, or a family member may conceal a genetic disorder from fear of social stigma.
A parent may not want to worry children, scare them, or deter them from marrying.
In other cases, a family member may die of another cause before he or she begins to show signs of HD.
Sometimes, the cause of death for a relative may not be known, or the family is not aware of a relative's death.
Adopted children may not know their genetic heritage, or early symptoms in an individual may be too slight to attract attention.
How Is Back Pain Treated?
Treatment for back pain generally depends on what kind of pain you experience: acute or chronic.
What structures make up the back?
The back is an intricate structure of bones, muscles, and other tissues that form the posterior part of the body's trunk, from the neck to the pelvis.
The centerpiece is the spinal column, which not only supports the upper body's weight but houses and protects the spinal cord - the delicate nervous system structure that carries signals that control the body's movements and convey its sensations.
Stacked on top of one another are more than 30 bones - the vertebrae - that form the spinal column, also known as the spine.
Each of these bones contains a roundish hole that, when stacked in register with all the others, creates a channel that surrounds the spinal cord.
The spinal cord descends from the base of the brain and extends in the adult to just below the rib cage.
Small nerves roots enter and emerge from the spinal cord through spaces between the vertebrae.
Because the bones of the spinal column continue growing long after the spinal cord reaches its full length in early childhood, the nerve roots to the lower back and legs extend many inches down the spinal column before exiting.
This large bundle of nerve roots was dubbed by early anatomists as the cauda equina, or horse's tail.
The spaces between the vertebrae are maintained by round, spongy pads of cartilage called intervertebral discs that allow for flexibility in the lower back and act much like shock absorbers throughout the spinal column to cushion the bones as the body moves.
Bands of tissue known as ligaments and tendons hold the vertebrae in place and attach the muscles to the spinal column.
Are there any treatments?
No cure or specific therapies for ML currently exists.
Therapies are generally geared toward treating symptoms and providing supportive care to the child.
For individuals with corneal clouding, surgery to remove the thin layer over the eye has been shown to reduce the cloudiness in the eye.
However, this improvement may be only temporary.
Physical and occupational therapy may help children with motor delays.
Children with language delays may benefit from speech therapy.
I found mold growing in my home, how do I test the mold?
Generally, it is not necessary to identify the species of mold growing in a residence, and CDC does not recommend routine sampling for molds.
Current evidence indicates that allergies are the type of diseases most often associated with molds.
Since the susceptibility of individuals can vary greatly either because of the amount or type of mold, sampling and culturing are not reliable in determining your health risk.
If you are susceptible to mold and mold is seen or smelled, there is a potential health risk; therefore, no matter what type of mold is present, you should arrange for its removal.
Furthermore, reliable sampling for mold can be expensive, and standards for judging what is and what is not an acceptable or tolerable quantity of mold have not been established.
How do I Deal With Challenges and Setbacks?
Write it down.
Write down what you eat and the amount of physical activity you do each day.
This can help pinpoint problems and ensure that you're getting the proper nutrition and enough physical activity.
Use the form in box 14 of Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure With DASH to record your food and physical activity habits.
What is the prognosis for Neurological Complications of Lyme Disease?
Most individuals with Lyme disease respond well to antibiotics and have full recovery.
In a small percentage of individuals, symptoms may continue or recur, requiring additional antibiotic treatment.
Varying degrees of permanent joint or nervous system damage may develop in individuals with late-stage Lyme disease.
What are the types of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease?
There are many forms of CMT disease, including CMT1, CMT2, CMT3, CMT4, and CMTX.
CMT1, caused by abnormalities in the myelin sheath, has three main types.
CMT1A is an autosomal dominant disease that results from a duplication of the gene on chromosome 17 that carries the instructions for producing the peripheral myelin protein-22 PMP-22.
The PMP-22 protein is a critical component of the myelin sheath.
Overexpression of this gene causes the structure and function of the myelin sheath to be abnormal.
Patients experience weakness and atrophy of the muscles of the lower legs beginning in adolescence; later they experience hand weakness and sensory loss.
Interestingly, a different neuropathy distinct from CMT1A called hereditary neuropathy with predisposition to pressure palsy HNPP is caused by a deletion of one of the PMP-22 genes.
In this case, abnormally low levels of the PMP-22 gene result in episodic, recurrent demyelinating neuropathy.
CMT1B is an autosomal dominant disease caused by mutations in the gene that carries the instructions for manufacturing the myelin protein zero P0, which is another critical component of the myelin sheath.
Most of these mutations are point mutations, meaning a mistake occurs in only one letter of the DNA genetic code.
To date, scientists have identified more than 120 different point mutations in the P0 gene.
As a result of abnormalities in P0, CMT1B produces symptoms similar to those found in CMT1A.
The less common CMT1C, CMT1D, and CMT1E, which also have symptoms similar to those found in CMT1A, are caused by mutations in the LITAF, EGR2, and NEFL genes, respectively.
How are abdominal adhesions and intestinal obstructions treated?
Abdominal adhesions that do not cause symptoms generally do not require treatment.
Surgery is the only way to treat abdominal adhesions that cause pain, intestinal obstruction, or fertility problems.
More surgery, however, carries the risk of additional abdominal adhesions.
People should speak with their health care provider about the best way to treat their abdominal adhesions.
What is a heart attack?
A heart attack happens when blood flow to the heart is suddenly blocked.
Part of the heart may die if the person doesn't get help quickly.
What is Involved-site RT?
Involved-site RT is an evolving approach to be used for patients when optimal prechemotherapy imaging PET-CT in a position similar to what will be used at the time of RT is not available to the radiation oncologist.
How are gallstones diagnosed?
A health care provider will usually order an ultrasound exam to diagnose gallstones.
Other imaging tests may also be used.
What are the signs and symptoms of bleeding in the digestive tract?
A person with acute bleeding may go into shock, which is an emergency condition.
A person in shock may have additional signs and symptoms that may include.
What Is an Asthma Attack?
An asthma attack may include coughing, chest tightness, wheezing, and trouble breathing.
The attack happens in your body's airways, which are the paths that carry air to your lungs.
As the air moves through your lungs, the airways become smaller, like the branches of a tree are smaller than the tree trunk.
During an asthma attack, the sides of the airways in your lungs swell and the airways shrink.
Less air gets in and out of your lungs, and mucous that your body makes clogs up the airways even more.
How Is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation Treated?
Treatment for disseminated intravascular coagulation DIC depends on its severity and cause.
The main goals of treating DIC are to control bleeding and clotting problems and treat the underlying cause.
What is Spinal muscular atrophy SMA?
Spinal muscular atrophy SMA is a hereditary disease affecting the lower motor neurons.
What is Pouchitis?
Pouchitis is an irritation or inflammation of the lining of an ileoanal reservoir or a continent ileostomy pouch
What research is being done for Isaacs' Syndrome?
The NINDS supports an extensive research program of basic studies to increase understanding of diseases that affect the brain, spinal cord, muscles, and nerves.
This research examines the genetics, symptoms, progression, and psychological and behavioral impact of diseases, with the goal of improving ways to diagnose, treat, and, ultimately, cure these disorders.
How do I Use an Automated External Defibrillator?
If you see a person suddenly collapse and pass out, or if you find a person already unconscious, confirm that the person can't respond.
Shout at and shake the person to make sure he or she isn't sleeping.
What Is Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome?
Usually, blood clotting is a normal bodily process.
Blood clots help seal small cuts or breaks on blood vessel walls.
This prevents you from losing too much blood.
In APS, however, too much blood clotting can block blood flow and damage the body's organs.
What is Swine influenza swine flu?
Swine influenza swine flu is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by type A influenza viruses that regularly cause outbreaks of influenza in pigs.
What Is CDC Doing about Birth Defects?
Preventing birth defects: Although we do not know the cause of most birth defects, the good news is that we know how to prevent some birth defects.
CDC is working to find out how to prevent others.
Scientists study data gathered from our birth defects monitoring systems to learn more.
We know there are things a woman can do before and during pregnancy to increase her chance of having a healthy baby: see a health professional regularly, take 400 mcg of folic acid every day - starting at least one month before getting pregnant, don't drink alcohol, smoke, or use illicit drugs, and get medical conditions like diabetes under control before getting pregnant.
Research suggests that many other important health behaviors may play a role in birth defects prevention.
Learn more about our efforts to prevent birth defects.
What should you expect after a Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant?
Staff at the clinic will teach you and your caregiver how to care for your central line which will stay in place for at least 6 months after your transplant, how to watch for and prevent infections, and other ways to care for you.
They also will tell you who to call and what to do in case of an emergency.
What is Metabolic syndrome?
Metabolic syndrome is a lifelong condition.
What Are the Risks of Cardiac CT?
Cardiac CT scans are painless.
Some people have side effects from the contrast dye that might be used during the scan.
An itchy feeling or a rash may appear after the contrast dye is injected.
Normally, neither side effect lasts for long, so medicine often isn't needed.
What is the prognosis for Hypotonia?
Hypotonia can be a life-long condition.
In some cases, however, muscle tone improves over time.
Have You Heard?
Archive: 2011 | 2010 | 2009 | 2008.
How can I tell if my child is overweight or obese?
For example, a child who is relatively heavy may have a high BMI for his or her age.
To determine whether the child has excess fat, further assessment would be needed.
Further assessment might include skinfold thickness measurements.
To determine a counseling strategy, assessments of diet, health, and physical activity are needed.
What Are the Causes of Back Pain?
It is important to understand that back pain is a symptom of a medical condition, not a diagnosis itself.
Medical problems that can cause back pain include the following:
What is the prognosis for Cerebral?
The prognosis for persons whose aneurysm has burst is largely dependent on the age and general health of the individual, other pre-existing neurological conditions, location of the aneurysm, extent of bleeding and rebleeding, and time between rupture and medical attention.
It is estimated that about 40 percent of individuals whose aneurysm has ruptured do not survive the first 24 hours; up to another 25 percent die from complications within 6 months.
People who experience subarachnoid hemorrhage may have permanent neurological damage.
Other individuals may recover with little or no neurological deficit.
Delayed complications from a burst aneurysm may include hydrocephalus and vasospasm.
Early diagnosis and treatment are important.
What other conditions are associated with IBS?
People with IBS often suffer from other GI and non-GI conditions.
GI conditions such as gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD and dyspepsia are more common in people with IBS than the general population.
GERD is a condition in which stomach contents flow back up into the esophagus - the organ that connects the mouth to the stomach - because the muscle between the esophagus and the stomach is weak or relaxes when it should not.
Dyspepsia, or indigestion, is upper abdominal discomfort that often occurs after eating.
Dyspepsia may be accompanied by fullness, bloating, nausea, or other GI symptoms.
Read more in Gastroesophageal Reflux GER and Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease GERD in Adults and Indigestion.
What is Interferon-alpha?
Interferon-alpha is a substance that your body normally makes.
What causes peptic ulcers?
A bacterium called Helicobacter pylori H.
pylori is a major cause of peptic ulcers.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs NSAIDs, such as aspirin and ibuprofen, are another common cause.
Rarely, cancerous or noncancerous tumors in the stomach, duodenum, or pancreas cause ulcers.
What is La Leche League?
La Leche League is an organization of trained and accredited volunteer mothers who provide mother-to-mother support and help to pregnant women considering breastfeeding and mothers who are breastfeeding in group meetings, as well as online and via telephone.
What are the other harmful effects of smoking on the digestive system?
Smoking contributes to many common disorders of the digestive system, such as heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD, peptic ulcers, and some liver diseases.
Smoking increases the risk of Crohn's disease, colon polyps, and pancreatitis, and it may increase the risk of gallstones.
What is A peptic ulcer?
A peptic ulcer is a sore in the lining of your stomach or duodenum*.
What is Tetanus lockjaw?
Tetanus lockjaw is a serious disease that causes painful tightening of the muscles, usually all over the body.
What is the prognosis for Myopathy?
The prognosis for individuals with a myopathy varies.
Some individuals have a normal life span and little or no disability.
For others, however, the disorder may be progressive, severely disabling, life-threatening, or fatal.
What is the prognosis for Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease?
About 90 percent of patients die within 1 year.
In the early stages of disease, patients may have failing memory, behavioral changes, lack of coordination and visual disturbances.
As the illness progresses, mental deterioration becomes pronounced and involuntary movements, blindness, weakness of extremities, and coma may occur.
Is there any treatment for Ohtahara Syndrome?
Antiepileptic drugs are used to control seizures, but are unfortunately not usually very effective for this disorder.
Corticosteroids are occasionally helpful.
In cases where there is a focal brain lesion damage contained to one area of the brain surgery may be beneficial.
Other therapies are symptomatic and supportive.
Why Do People Have Hip Replacement Surgery?
For the majority of people who have hip replacement surgery, the procedure results in:
How Is Vasculitis Treated?
People who have severe vasculitis are treated with prescription medicines.
Rarely, surgery may be done.
People who have mild vasculitis may find relief with over-the-counter pain medicines, such as acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, or naproxen.
What is Merkel cell carcinoma?
Merkel cell carcinoma is a rare tumor.
What Is a Lung Ventilation/Perfusion Scan?
A PE is a sudden blockage in a lung artery.
The blockage usually is caused by a blood clot that travels to the lung from a vein in the leg.
PE is a serious condition that can cause low blood oxygen levels, damage to the lungs, or even death.
What research is being done for Coffin Lowry Syndrome?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on genetic disorders, such as Coffin-Lowry syndrome, in an effort to find ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure these disorders.
Who Needs a Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant?
You also will have tests to make sure you're healthy enough to have the procedure.
Your doctors will want to find out whether you have any medical problems that could cause complications after the transplant.
For more information, go to What To Expect Before a Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant..
What is AAA?
If the wall of your aorta is weak, it can swell like a balloon.
This balloon-like swelling is called an aneurysm 'AN-yoor-izm'.
AAA is an aneurysm that occurs in the part of the aorta running through the abdomen.
How often do I need to take my baby for well-baby visits?
The first well-baby visit is 2 to 3 days after coming home from the hospital.
After that visit, babies need to see the doctor or nurse when they are:
What should you discuss with your doctor?
Talk with your doctor, nurse, or other health care professional about your bone health.
Use this checklist to start your discussion.
What research is being done for Multiple System Atrophy?
The NINDS supports research about MSA through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
In 2007, the NINDS sponsored a consensus conference that brought together experts from around the world to review and update the diagnostic criteria for MSA.
These new diagnostic guidelines are helping doctors make quicker and more accurate diagnoses of MSA.
A great deal of research is ongoing to learn why synuclein buildup occurs in MSA and Parkinson's disease, and how to prevent it.
My child does not have diarrhea, but was recently diagnosed as havingGiardia infection.
My health care provider says treatment is not necessary.
Is this correct?
Your child does not usually need treatment if he or she has no symptoms.
However, there are a few exceptions.
If your child does not have diarrhea, but does have other symptoms such as nausea or upset stomach, tiredness, weight loss, or a lack of hunger, you and your health care provider may need to think about treatment.
The same is true if many family members are ill, or if a family member is pregnant and unable to take the most effective medications to treat Giardia.
Contact your health care provider for specific treatment recommendations.
How is Ibuprofen also used?
Ibuprofen also is used to close PDAs in premature infants.
How common is constipation and who is affected most?
Many women get constipated during pregnancy or after giving birth.
Constipation is also common after surgery.
People taking medicines to treat depression or to relieve pain from things such as a broken bone, a pulled tooth, or back pain may have constipation.
What about mosquito control in my town/county?
Integrated mosquito management helps reduce the number of mosquitoes, especially those that can carry disease.
This is a crucial part of reducing the risk to humans.
Mosquito control won't get rid of every last mosquito, but combined with repellent use one can markedly reduce the chances of getting bitten.
Ask local officials about starting mosquito control in your city or county if it doesn't exist already.
What is Hemolytic anemia?
Hemolytic anemia is a condition in which red blood cells are destroyed faster than the body can replace them.
What is A healthy diet?
A healthy diet is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
How is the Cause of Stroke Determined?
Physicians have several diagnostic techniques and imaging tools to help diagnose the cause of stroke quickly and accurately.
The first step in diagnosis is a short neurological examination.
When a possible stroke patient arrives at a hospital, a health care professional, usually a doctor or nurse, will ask the patient or a companion what happened and when the symptoms began.
Blood tests, an electrocardiogram, and a brain scan, such CT or MRI, will often be done.
One test that helps doctors judge the severity of a stroke is the standardized NIH Stroke Scale, developed by the NINDS.
Health care professionals use the NIH Stroke Scale to measure a patient's neurological deficits by asking the patient to answer questions and to perform several physical and mental tests.
Other scales include the Glasgow Coma Scale, the Hunt and Hess Scale, the Modified Rankin Scale, and the Barthel Index.
What Causes Raynaud's?
In primary Raynaud's also called Raynaud's disease, the cause isn't known.
Primary Raynaud's is more common and tends to be less severe than secondary Raynaud's.

How Is Narcolepsy Diagnosed?
It can take as long as 10 to 15 years after the first symptoms appear before narcolepsy is recognized and diagnosed.
This is because narcolepsy is fairly rare.
Also, many narcolepsy symptoms are like symptoms of other illnesses, such as infections, depression, and sleep disorders.
What is Neuropathic pain?
Neuropathic pain is a type of pain that can result from injury to nerves, either in the peripheral or central nervous system see The Nervous Systems in the Appendix.
How is carpal tunnel syndrome diagnosed?
Physicians can use specific tests to try to produce the symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome.
In the Tinel test, the doctor taps on or presses on the median nerve in the patient's wrist.
The test is positive when tingling in the fingers or a resultant shock-like sensation occurs.
The Phalen, or wrist-flexion, test involves having the patient hold his or her forearms upright by pointing the fingers down and pressing the backs of the hands together.
The presence of carpal tunnel syndrome is suggested if one or more symptoms, such as tingling or increasing numbness, is felt in the fingers within 1 minute.
Doctors may also ask patients to try to make a movement that brings on symptoms.
What causes myasthenia gravis?
Myasthenia gravis is caused by a defect in the transmission of nerve impulses to muscles.
It occurs when normal communication between the nerve and muscle is interrupted at the neuromuscular junction - the place where nerve cells connect with the muscles they control.
Normally when impulses travel down the nerve, the nerve endings release a neurotransmitter substance called acetylcholine.
Acetylcholine travels from the neuromuscular junction and binds to acetylcholine receptors which are activated and generate a muscle contraction.
What is Clinical staging based on?
Clinical staging is based on whether the tumor has spread to regional lymph nodes or distant sites.
Why Might Some Adults Need Vaccines?
Some adults incorrectly assume that the vaccines they received as children will protect them for the rest of their lives.
Generally this is true, except that:
What was CDC's role in responding to the anthrax attacks?
National surveillance; epidemiologic investigations in collaboration with state and local health departments; support for state public health labs through the Laboratory Response Network LRN; laboratory diagnostic support through the Rapid Response and Advanced Technology Laboratory RRAT Lab, Anthrax Laboratory, and Pathology Laboratory for case confirmation; clinical consultation; professional and public education; advice on postexposure prophylaxis; deployment of antimicrobial agents and supplies through the Vendor Managed Inventory of the NPS; consultation on environmental decontamination; development of treatment recommendations.
What is Sleep often?
Sleep often is the first thing that busy people squeeze out of their schedules.
What is The CT scanner?
The CT scanner is a large machine that has a hollow, circular tube in the center.
How Is Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency Treated?
Augmentation og-men-TA-shun therapy is a treatment used only for people who have AAT-related lung diseases.
This therapy involves getting infusions of the AAT protein.
The infusions raise the level of the protein in your blood and lungs.
How Is Fibrous Dysplasia Treated?
There is no cure for fibrous dysplasia.
Like most medical conditions, one treats the symptoms or problems as they arise.
Fractures often require surgery, but can sometimes be treated with just a cast.
Surgeries are recommended if a fracture is likely to occur, or in an effort to correct the shape of the bone.
Surgery may also be indicated to relieve bone pain.
Medications known as bisphosphonates - approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of other bone diseases - have been shown to reduce pain associated with the disease.
Bone-healthy strategies such as physical activity with physician approval, and adequate calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D intake are also important.
What is the prognosis for Meralgia Paresthetica?
Meralgia paresthetica usually has a good prognosis.
In most cases, meralgia paresthetica will improve with conservative treatment or may even spontaneously resolve.
Surgical intervention is not always fully successful.
What is Congenital myasthenia?
Congenital myasthenia is an inherited genetic disorder.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Respiratory Failure?
A low oxygen level in the blood can cause shortness of breath and air hunger feeling like you can't breathe in enough air.
If the level of oxygen is very low, it also can cause a bluish color on the skin, lips, and fingernails.
A high carbon dioxide level can cause rapid breathing and confusion.
How is ALS diagnosed?
Since ALS symptoms in the early stages of the disease can be similar to those of a wide variety of other, more treatable diseases or disorders, appropriate tests must be conducted to exclude the possibility of other conditions.
One of these tests is electromyography EMG, a special recording technique that detects electrical activity in muscles.
Certain EMG findings can support the diagnosis of ALS.
Another common test is a nerve conduction study NCS, which measures electrical energy by assessing the nerve's ability to send a signal.
Specific abnormalities in the NCS and EMG may suggest, for example, that the individual has a form of peripheral neuropathy damage to peripheral nerves or myopathy muscle disease rather than ALS.
The physician may order magnetic resonance imaging MRI, a noninvasive procedure that uses a magnetic field and radio waves to take detailed images of the brain and spinal cord.
Standard MRI scans are normal in people with ALS.
However, they can reveal evidence of other problems that may be causing the symptoms, such as a spinal cord tumor, a herniated disk in the neck that compresses the spinal cord, syringomyelia a cyst in the spinal cord, or cervical spondylosis abnormal wear affecting the spine in the neck.
What is The Tracking Network?
The Tracking Network is a tool that can help us estimate how solving one problem can help solve the other.
What research is being done for Tabes Dorsalis?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on neurodegenerative disorders, such as tabes dorsalis, in an effort to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure these disorders.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What is the prognosis for Cerebro-Oculo-Facio-Skeletal?
COFS is a fatal disease.
Most children do not live beyond five years.
What is Pulmonary circulation?
Pulmonary circulation is the movement of blood from the heart to the lungs and back to the heart again.
What is Klippel-Feil Syndrome?
Klippel-Feil Syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by the congenital fusion of any 2 of the 7 cervical neck vertebrae.
What is the prognosis for Schilder's Disease?
As with multiple sclerosis, the course and prognosis of Schilder's disease are unpredictable.
For some individuals the disorder is progressive with a steady, unremitting course.
Others may experience significant improvement and even remission.
In some cases, Schilder's disease is fatal.
What are the health consequences of AVMs?
The greatest potential danger posed by AVMs is hemorrhage.
Researchers believe that each year between 2 and 4 percent of all AVMs hemorrhage.
Most episodes of bleeding remain undetected at the time they occur because they are not severe enough to cause significant neurological damage.
But massive, even fatal, bleeding episodes do occur.
The present state of knowledge does not permit doctors to predict whether or not any particular person with an AVM will suffer an extensive hemorrhage.
The lesions can remain stable or can suddenly begin to grow.
In a few cases, they have been observed to regress spontaneously.
Whenever an AVM is detected, the individual should be carefully and consistently monitored for any signs of instability that may indicate an increased risk of hemorrhage.
What research is being done for Complex Regional Pain Syndrome?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research relating to CRPS in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
NINDS-supported scientists are studying new approaches to treat CRPS and intervene more aggressively after traumatic injury to lower the chances of developing the disorder.
What is Iron overload?
Iron overload is the accumulation of excess iron in body tissues.
How does a person prepare for ERCP?
Patients should tell their health care provider about all health conditions they have, especially heart and lung problems, diabetes, and allergies.
Patients should also tell their health care provider about all medications they take.
Patients may be asked to temporarily stop taking medications that affect blood clotting or interact with sedatives, which are usually given during ERCP to help patients relax and stay comfortable.
What research shows that seasonal flu vaccine is safe for unborn babies?
Studies of several thousand pregnant women in scientific literature have assessed the safety of using the flu vaccine during pregnancy.
These studies have shown no evidence of harm to pregnant women, to the unborn child or fetus or to newborns of vaccinated women.
In addition, the Food and Drug Administration's FDA and CDC's routine monitoring of adverse events has not raised safety concerns.
What is Intestinal pseudo-obstruction?
Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a rare condition with symptoms that resemble those caused by a blockage, or obstruction, of the intestines, also called the bowel.
When is a liver transplant considered for primary biliary cirrhosis?
A health care provider may consider a liver transplant when cirrhosis leads to liver failure or treatment for complications is ineffective.
Liver transplantation is surgery to remove a diseased or an injured liver and replace it with a healthy liver or part of a liver from another person, called a donor.
How can hepatitis D be prevented?
People not already infected with hepatitis B should receive the hepatitis B vaccine.
Other preventive measures include avoiding exposure to infected blood, contaminated needles, and an infected person's personal items such as toothbrushes, razors, and nail clippers.
Is BMI interpreted the same way for children and teens as it is for adults?
Although the BMI number is calculated the same way for children and adults, the criteria used to interpret the meaning of the BMI number for children and teens are different from those used for adults.
For children and teens, BMI age- and sex-specific percentiles are used for two reasons:
What treatments are available?
Doctors prescribe central nervous system alerting agents such as modafinil and amphetamine-like stimulants such as methylphenidate to alleviate EDS and reduce the incidence of sleep attacks.
For most people these medications are generally quite effective at reducing daytime drowsiness and improving levels of alertness.
However, use of these medications may be associated with several undesirable side effects and must be carefully monitored.
Common side effects include irritability and nervousness, shakiness, disturbances in heart rhythm, stomach upset, nighttime sleep disruption, and anorexia.
Individuals may also develop tolerance with long-term use, leading to the need for increased dosages to maintain effectiveness.
In addition, doctors should be careful when prescribing these drugs and people should be careful using them because the potential for abuse is high with any amphetamine.
How Is Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome Diagnosed?
Obesity hypoventilation syndrome OHS is diagnosed based on your medical history, signs and symptoms, and test results.
What is Respiratory failure?
Respiratory failure is a condition in which not enough oxygen passes from your lungs into your blood.
The real question was, 'Will this hurt someone?
Not many people can bring up the risks from inhaling anthrax spores, microwave popcorn flavoring and nano particulates in the same conversation.
CDC's Ann Hubbs, DVM, Ph.D., is that person.
Hubbs was selected to respond to the 2001 intentional release of anthrax, in part, because she had a unique professional background.
How is Parkinson's Disease Diagnosed?
There are currently no blood or laboratory tests that diagnose sporadic PD.
Therefore the diagnosis is based on medical history and a neurological examination.
In some cases PD can be difficult to diagnose accurately early on in the course of the disease.
Early signs and symptoms of PD may sometimes be dismissed as the effects of normal aging.
Doctors may sometimes request brain scans or laboratory tests in order to rule out other disorders.
However, CT and MRI brain scans of people with PD usually appear normal.
Since many other diseases have similar features but require different treatments, making a precise diagnosis is important so that people can receive the proper treatment.
Is there any treatment for Dysgraphia?
Treatment for dysgraphia varies and may include treatment for motor disorders to help control writing movements.
Other treatments may address impaired memory or other neurological problems.
Some physicians recommend that individuals with dysgraphia use computers to avoid the problems of handwriting.
What are the signs of stress?
Stress is different for everyone.
Use this tool to better understand your stress.
How does smoking affect gallstones?
Gallstones are small, hard particles that develop in the gallbladder, the organ that stores bile made by the liver.
Gallstones can move into the ducts that carry digestive enzymes from the gallbladder, liver, and pancreas to the duodenum, causing inflammation, infection, and abdominal pain.
What is colorectal cancer?
Cancer of the colon or rectum is called colorectal cancer.
Like other types of cancer, colorectal cancer can spread to other parts of your body.
Where are head lice most commonly found?
Head lice and head lice nits are found almost exclusively on the scalp, particularly around and behind the ears and near the neckline at the back of the head.
Head lice or head lice nits sometimes are found on the eyelashes or eyebrows but this is uncommon.
Head lice hold tightly to hair with hook-like claws at the end of each of their six legs.
Head lice nits are cemented firmly to the hair shaft and can be difficult to remove even after the nymphs hatch and empty casings remain.
How is PPS treated?
Although there are no effective treatments, there are recommended management strategies.
Patients should consider seeking medical advice from a physician experienced in treating neuromuscular disorders.
Patients should also consider judicious use of exercise, preferably under the supervision of an experienced health professional.
Physicians often advise patients on the use of mobility aids, ventilation equipment, revising activities of daily living activities to avoid rapid muscle tiring and total body exhaustion, and avoiding activities that cause pain or fatigue lasting more than 10 minutes.
Most importantly, patients should avoid the temptation to attribute all signs and symptoms to prior polio, thereby missing out on important treatments for concurrent conditions.
Is there any treatment for Congenital Myopathy?
Currently, only central core disease has an effective treatment see above.
There are no known cures for any of these disorders.
Supportive treatment may involve orthopedic treatments, as well as physical, occupational or speech therapy.
What is Shingles herpes zoster?
Shingles herpes zoster is an outbreak of rash or blisters on the skin that is caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox - the varicella-zoster virus.
What are the symptoms of diverticular disease?
The symptoms for diverticulosis and diverticulitis are different.
How do you know if you have a mold problem?
Large mold infestations can usually be seen or smelled.
How Is Cystic Fibrosis Treated?
Cystic fibrosis CF has no cure.
However, treatments have greatly improved in recent years.
The goals of CF treatment include:
What services are useful to Friedreich's ataxia patients and their families?
Genetic testing is essential for proper clinical diagnosis, and can aid in prenatal diagnosis and determining a person's carrier status.
Genetic counselors can help explain how Friedreich's ataxia is inherited.
Psychological counseling and support groups for people with genetic diseases may also help affected individuals and their families cope with the disease.
What is gas?
Gas is air in the digestive tract.
Gas leaves the body when people burp through the mouth or pass gas through the anus* - the opening at the end of the digestive tract where stool leaves the body.
What research is being done for Congenital Myopathy?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to congenital myopathies in their laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure the disorders that make up the congenital myopathies.
Do head lice spread disease?
Head lice should not be considered as a medical or public health hazard.
Head lice are not known to spread disease.
Head lice can be an annoyance because their presence may cause itching and loss of sleep.
Sometimes the itching can lead to excessive scratching that can sometimes increase the chance of a secondary skin infection.
Who Is at Risk for Sarcoidosis?
Lofgren's syndrome, a type of sarcoidosis, is more common in people of European descent.
Lofgren's syndrome may involve fever, enlarged lymph nodes, arthritis usually in the ankles, and/or erythema nodosum.
Erythema nodosum is a rash of red or reddish-purple bumps on your ankles and shins.
The rash may be warm and tender to the touch.
Why do I need to talk to my child?
Research shows that kids do listen to their parents.
Children who learn about drug risks from their parents are less likely to start using drugs.
What is Carotid ultrasound?
Carotid ultrasound is a painless test.
What is Retinal migraine?
Retinal migraine is a condition characterized by attacks of visual loss or disturbances in one eye.
What is Influenza flu?
Influenza flu is a contagious respiratory disease that infects the nose, throat, and lungs and can lead to serious complications, hospitalization, or even death.
What Does Long QT Mean?
With each heartbeat, an electrical signal spreads from the top of your heart to the bottom.
As it travels, the signal causes the heart to contract and pump blood.
An EKG records electrical signals as they move through your heart.
What is Parkinsonian tremor caused by?
Parkinsonian tremor is caused by damage to structures within the brain that control movement.
What is Gerstmann's syndrome?
Gerstmann's syndrome is a cognitive impairment that results from damage to a specific area of the brain -- the left parietal lobe in the region of the angular gyrus.
What is Excessive blood clotting?
Excessive blood clotting is a condition in which blood clots form too easily or don't dissolve properly.
What causes Alagille syndrome?
Alagille syndrome is sometimes an autosomal dominant disorder, meaning a person inherits it from one parent who has the disorder.
In other cases, a gene mutation develops spontaneously, meaning neither parent carries a copy of the mutated gene.
A child who has a parent with Alagille syndrome has a 50 percent chance of developing the disorder.
Most people with Alagille syndrome have a mutation, or defect, in the Jagged1 JAG1 gene.
Mutations in the NOTCH2 gene are seen in less than 1 percent of people with Alagille syndrome.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What are the signs, symptoms, and types of treatment available forSalmonella infections?
Sometimes, people can become so sick from a Salmonella infection that they have to go to the hospital.
Children under the age of 5 years, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems, including pregnant women, are more likely to have a serious illness.
When severe infection occurs, Salmonella may spread from the intestines to the bloodstream and then to other body sites and can cause death unless the person is treated promptly with antibiotics.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Excessive Blood Clotting?
Signs and symptoms of excessive blood clotting depend on where the clots form.
For example, symptoms of a blood clot in the heart or lungs may include chest pain, shortness of breath, and upper body discomfort in the arms, back, neck, or jaw.
These symptoms may suggest a heart attack or pulmonary embolism PE.
Who Is at Risk for Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency?
Certain medical conditions have been linked to sleep disorders.
These conditions include heart failure, heart disease, obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure, stroke or transient ischemic attack mini-stroke, depression, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD.
How are the tests done?
Most newborn screening tests use a few drops of blood taken from the heel of your baby's foot.
The same sample of blood can be used to test for many different diseases.
These tests don't cause any harm or risk to your baby.
What Are the Symptoms of Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is called the silent disease because bone is lost with no signs.
You may not know that you have osteoporosis until a strain, bump, or fall causes a bone to break.
What Are the Risks of Carotid Ultrasound?
Carotid ultrasound has no risks because the test uses harmless sound waves.
They are the same type of sound waves that doctors use to record pictures of fetuses in pregnant women.
What Is Respiratory Failure?
Diseases and conditions that affect your breathing can cause respiratory failure.
Examples include COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and spinal cord injuries.
COPD prevents enough air from flowing in and out of the airways.
Spinal cord injuries can damage the nerves that control breathing.
What conditions are associated with low back pain?
Conditions that may cause low back pain and require treatment by a physician or other health specialist include:
Q.
What about flu vaccines for pigs?
A.
Flu vaccines for pigs can help, but are not 100% effective.
Sometimes the vaccine used may not protect against the virus or viruses circulating.
In addition, current vaccines may not be effective in young pigs due to interference from antibodies received from the sow.
Generally, protection of young pigs is achieved by vaccinating sows; however, those maternal antibodies are not fully protective for the young pig and decrease by the time they are 10 to 13 weeks old or sooner.
Producers may vaccinate their animals after maternal antibodies decrease.
What are the Different Kinds of Cephalic Disorders?
SCHIZENCEPHALY is a rare developmental disorder characterized by abnormal slits, or clefts, in the cerebral hemispheres.
Schizencephaly is a form of porencephaly.
Individuals with clefts in both hemispheres, or bilateral clefts, are often developmentally delayed and have delayed speech and language skills and corticospinal dysfunction.
Individuals with smaller, unilateral clefts clefts in one hemisphere may be weak on one side of the body and may have average or near-average intelligence.
Patients with schizencephaly may also have varying degrees of microcephaly, mental retardation, hemiparesis weakness or paralysis affecting one side of the body, or quadriparesis weakness or paralysis affecting all four extremities, and may have reduced muscle tone hypotonia.
Most patients have seizures and some may have hydrocephalus.
Who should get HPV vaccine?
Boys and girls should get all three doses of HPV vaccine when they are 11 or 12 years old.
If a teen or young adult through age 26 has not started or finished the series of three HPV vaccine shots, it's not too late! If it has been a long time since your child got the first or second dose of HPV vaccine, you don't have to start over - just get the remaining shots as soon as possible.
Make an appointment today to get your child vaccinated.
Who Gets Osteoporosis?
There are many things that can increase your chances of getting osteoporosis.
These things are called 'risk factors.' Some risk factors are things you can control, and some things are outside of your control.
What Do Blood Tests Show?
Your blood test results may fall outside the normal range for many reasons.
Abnormal results might be a sign of a disorder or disease.
Other factors - such as diet, menstrual cycle, physical activity level, alcohol intake, and medicines both prescription and over the counter - also can cause abnormal results.
How is canine influenza treated?
Treatment largely consists of supportive care.
This helps the dog mount an immune response.
In the milder form of the disease, this care may include medication to make your dog more comfortable and fluids to ensure that your dog remains well-hydrated.
Broad spectrum antibiotics may be prescribed by your veterinarian if a secondary bacterial infection is suspected.
What should you expect during Blood Tests?
The person who draws your blood might tie a band around the upper part of your arm or ask you to make a fist.
Doing this can make the veins in your arm stick out more, which makes it easier to insert the needle.
What Are the Lungs?
The lungs' intake of oxygen and removal of carbon dioxide is called gas exchange.
Gas exchange is part of breathing.
Breathing is a vital function of life; it helps your body work properly.
What is the prognosis for Dermatomyositis?
Most cases of dermatomyositis respond to therapy.
The disease is usually more severe and resistant to therapy in individuals with cardiac or pulmonary problems.
What is Wegener's granulomatosis?
Wegener's granulomatosis is a rare type of vasculitis.
Do adults with cerebral palsy face special health challenges?
Depression.
Mental health issues can also be of concern as someone with cerebral palsy grows older.
The rate of depression is three to four times higher in people with disabilities such as cerebral palsy.
It appears to be related not so much to the severity of their disabilities, but to how well they cope with them.
The amount of emotional support someone has, how successful they are at coping with disappointment and stress, and whether or not they have an optimistic outlook about the future all have a significant impact on mental health.
How is cirrhosis treated?
Your doctor will suggest treatment based on the cause of your cirrhosis and your symptoms.
Being diagnosed early and carefully following a treatment plan can help many people with cirrhosis.
In the late stages of cirrhosis, certain treatments may not be effective.
In that case, your doctor will work with you to prevent or manage the problems that cirrhosis can cause.
What can I do about diverticular disease?
Eat a high-fiber diet to help prevent problems.
Talk to your doctor about using fiber products like Benefiber, Citrucel, or Metamucil.
Daily use can help you get the fiber you need if you do not get it through your diet.
How is Alagille syndrome diagnosed?
The doctor may refer a person suspected of having Alagille syndrome to a geneticist - a physician who specializes in genetic disorders - to review the findings and assist with diagnosis.
The geneticist and a genetic counselor meet with family members to review the family medical history and provide information.
Once a person is diagnosed with Alagille syndrome, the parents may be tested for the JAG1 gene mutation.
Siblings and other family members may also be tested.
The specialists discuss the likelihood that family members and offspring will have the mutation.
Prenatal testing is available at specialized centers.
What is Diagnosis based on?
Diagnosis is based on the individual's medical history, results of a physical exam and tests of muscle strength, and blood samples that show elevated levels of various muscle enzymes and autoantibodies.
Who gets narcolepsy?
Narcolepsy affects both males and female equally and appears throughout the world.
Symptoms often start in childhood or adolescence, but can occur later in life.
The condition is life-long.
Narcolepsy is not rare, but it is an underrecognized and underdiagnosed condition.
Narcolepsy with cataplexy is estimated to affect about one in every 3,000 Americans.
More cases without cataplexy are also likely to exist.
What is the prognosis for Thoracic Outlet Syndrome?
The outcome for individuals with TOS varies according to type.
The majority of individuals with TOS will improve with exercise and physical therapy.
Vascular TOS, and true neurogenic TOS often require surgery to relieve pressure on the affected vessel or nerve.
How Does Genetic Counseling Help?
People seek genetic counseling to make better decisions about their lives and families.
Because genetic counselors understand how genetic disorders are passed on through families, they can help couples estimate the risks of having children with genetic diseases.
They can also tell parents about tests to determine if they are carrying certain altered genes, tests for newborns who may have inherited certain altered genes, and tests that can be done in early pregnancy to determine if a fetus either carries an altered copy of a gene or is affected with a disorder.
The information derived from all these studies can facilitate family planning.
What Is Cardiogenic Shock?
The most common cause of cardiogenic shock is damage to the heart muscle from a severe heart attack.
However, not everyone who has a heart attack has cardiogenic shock.
In fact, on average, only about 7 percent of people who have heart attacks develop the condition.
Does the higher dose vaccine produce a better immune response in adults 65 years and older?
Data from clinical trials comparing Fluzone to Fluzone High-Dose among persons aged 65 years or older indicate that a stronger immune response i.e., higher antibody levels occurs after vaccination with Fluzone High-Dose.
Whether or not the improved immune response leads to greater protection against influenza disease after vaccination is not yet known.
An ongoing study designed to determine the effectiveness of Fluzone High-Dose in preventing illness from influenza compared to Fluzone is expected to be completed in 2014-2015.
Who Is at Risk for Childhood Interstitial Lung Disease?
Having a systemic or autoimmune disease, such as collagen vascular disease or inflammatory bowel disease.
Systemic diseases are diseases that involve many of the body's organs.
Autoimmune diseases occur if the body's immune system mistakenly attacks the body's tissues and cells.
How does Measle Spread?
People in the United States still get measles, but it's not very common.
That's because most people in this country are protected against measles through vaccination.
However, since measles is still common in parts of Europe, Asia, the Pacific, and Africa, measles is brought into the United States by people who get infected while they are abroad.
How do I Read a Food Label for Calcium?
The food label, called Nutrition Facts, shows you how much one serving of that food contributes to the total amount of calcium, as well as other nutrients, you need every day.
This is expressed as a percentage of the daily value %DV of calcium that is recommended.
For labeling purposes, this is based on the daily calcium recommendation of 1,000 milligrams for people 19 to 50 years old.
Since children and teens 9 to 18 years old require more calcium, their %DV target is higher, as indicated below:
What research is being done for Neurological Consequences of Cytomegalovirus Infection?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH, conduct research related to CMV infection in laboratories at the NIH, and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent and treat CMV infection in people at risk of severe neurological consequences, especially a safe and effective CMV vaccine.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a test that creates pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels.
Why is digestion important?
Digestion is important for breaking down food into nutrients, which the body uses for energy, growth, and cell repair.
Food and drink must be changed into smaller molecules of nutrients before the blood absorbs them and carries them to cells throughout the body.
The body breaks down nutrients from food and drink into carbohydrates, protein, fats, and vitamins.
How are the mucopolysaccharidoses diagnosed?
Clinical examination and urine tests excess mucopolysaccharides are excreted in the urine are the first steps in the diagnosis of an MPS disease.
Enzyme assays testing a variety of cells or blood in culture for enzyme deficiency are also used to provide definitive diagnosis of one of the mucopolysaccharidoses.
Prenatal diagnosis using amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling can verify if a fetus is affected with the disorder.
Genetic counseling can help parents who have a family history of the mucopolysaccharidoses determine if they are carrying the mutated gene that causes the disorders.
Is there any treatment for Iniencephaly?
There is no standard treatment for iniencephaly since most infants rarely live longer than a few hours.
Medicine is based more on prevention using supplementation with folic acid.
Numerous studies have demonstrated that mothers can reduce the risk of neural tube birth defects such as iniencephaly by up to 70 percent with daily supplements of at least 4 mg of folic acid.
Pregnant women should avoid taking antiepileptic drugs, diuretics, antihistamines, and sulfa drugs, which have been shown to be associated with an increased risk of neural tube defects.
Maternal obesity and diabetes are also known to increase the risk for these disorders.
How Can Atrial Fibrillation Be Prevented?
For more information about following a healthy lifestyle, visit the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Aim for a Healthy Weight Web site, Your Guide to a Healthy Heart,Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure With DASH, and Your Guide to Physical Activity and Your Heart..
What is An aneurysm?
An aneurysm is the abnormal ballooning of an artery that causes the artery wall to weaken.
Who is at risk for hepatitis B?
people who have lived in parts of the world where hepatitis B is common, including most Asian and Pacific Island nations.
What if the liver transplant doesn't work?
Liver transplants usually work.
About 80 to 85 percent of transplanted livers are still working after 1 year.
If the new liver does not work or if your body rejects it, your doctor and the transplant team will decide whether another transplant is possible.
Who Is at Risk for Pulmonary Embolism?
Pulmonary embolism PE occurs equally in men and women.
The risk increases with age.
For every 10 years after age 60, the risk of having PE doubles.
Is there any treatment for Restless Legs Syndrome?
For those with mild to moderate symptoms, many physicians suggest certain lifestyle changes and activities to reduce or eliminate symptoms.
Decreased use of caffeine, alcohol, and tobacco may provide some relief.
Physicians may suggest that certain individuals take supplements to correct deficiencies in iron, folate, and magnesium.
Taking a hot bath, massaging the legs, or using a heating pad or ice pack can help relieve symptoms in some patients.
How are foodborne illnesses diagnosed?
Diagnostic tests for foodborne illnesses may include a stool culture, in which a sample of stool is analyzed in a laboratory to check for signs of infections or diseases.
A sample of vomit or a sample of the suspected food, if available, may also be tested.
A health care provider may perform additional medical tests to rule out diseases and disorders that cause symptoms similar to the symptoms of foodborne illnesses.
How Is It Diagnosed?
Early diagnosis and treatment are important to minimize complications.
Siblings and children of people with Paget's disease may wish to have an alkaline phosphatase blood test every 2 or 3 years starting around the age of 40.
If the alkaline phosphatase level is higher than normal, a bone scan may be used to identify which bone or bones are affected and an x ray of these bones is used to verify the diagnosis of Paget's disease.
What is a stroke?
A stroke occurs when blood flow to the brain is interrupted.
When a stroke occurs, brain cells in the immediate area begin to die because they no longer receive the oxygen and nutrients they need to function.
What are Pituitary Tumors?
The pituitary is a small, bean-sized gland that is below the hypothalamus, a structure at the base of the brain, by a thread-like stalk that contains both blood vessels and nerves.
It controls a system of hormones in the body that regulate growth, metabolism, the stress response, and functions of the sex organs via the thyroid gland, adrenal gland, ovaries, and testes.
A pituitary tumor is an abnormal growth of cells within the pituitary gland.
Most pituitary tumors are benign, which means they are non-cancerous, grow slowly and do not spread to other parts of the body; however they can make the pituitary gland produce either too many or too few hormones, which can cause problems in the body.
Tumors that make hormones are called functioning tumors, and they can cause a wide array of symptoms depending upon the hormone affected.
Tumors that don't make hormones are called non-functioning tumors.
Their symptoms are directly related to their growth in size and include headaches, vision problems, nausea, and vomiting.
Diseases related to hormone abnormalities include Cushing's disease, in which fat builds up in the face, back and chest, and the arms and legs become very thin; and acromegaly, a condition in which the hands, feet, and face are larger than normal.
Pituitary hormones that impact the sex hormones, such as estrogen and testosterone, can make a woman produce breast milk even though she is not pregnant or nursing, or cause a man to lose his sex drive or lower his sperm count.
Pituitary tumors often go undiagnosed because their symptoms resemble those of so many other more common diseases.
What is Atelectasis?
Atelectasis is a condition in which one or more areas of your lungs collapse or don't inflate properly.
Are there any restrictions about owning live poultry?
Rules and regulations vary by city, county, and state ordinances, so check with your local government to determine restrictions about owning live poultry.
What viruses does the 2013-2014 vaccine provide protection against?
Quadrivalent vaccine this year contains the three viruses listed in the bullets above, and also a B/Brisbane/60/2008-like B/Victoria lineage virus.
See Quadrivalent Vaccine: Questions and Answers for more information.
What Are Thalassemias?
Thalassemias cause the body to make fewer healthy red blood cells and less hemoglobin HEE-muh-glow-bin than normal.
Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein in red blood cells.
It carries oxygen to all parts of the body.
Hemoglobin also carries carbon dioxide a waste gas from the body to the lungs, where it's exhaled.
How Is Metabolic Syndrome Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose metabolic syndrome based on the results of a physical exam and blood tests.
You must have at least three of the five metabolic risk factors to be diagnosed with metabolic syndrome.
What Is Patent Ductus Arteriosus?
Patent ductus arteriosus PDA is a heart problem that affects some babies soon after birth.
In PDA, abnormal blood flow occurs between two of the major arteries connected to the heart.
These arteries are the aorta and the pulmonary PULL-mun-ary artery.
What research is being done for Guillain-Barre?
Scientists are concentrating on finding new treatments and refining existing ones.
Scientists are also looking at the workings of the immune system to find which cells are responsible for beginning and carrying out the attack on the nervous system.
The fact that so many cases of Guillain-Barre begin after a viral or bacterial infection suggests that certain characteristics of some viruses and bacteria may activate the immune system inappropriately.
Investigators are searching for those characteristics.
Certain proteins or peptides in viruses and bacteria may be the same as those found in myelin, and the generation of antibodies to neutralize the invading viruses or bacteria could trigger the attack on the myelin sheath.
As noted previously, neurological scientists, immunologists, virologists, and pharmacologists are all working collaboratively to learn how to prevent this disorder and to make better therapies available when it strikes.
What are Repetitive Motion Disorders?
Repetitive motion disorders RMDs are a family of muscular conditions that result from repeated motions performed in the course of normal work or daily activities.
RMDs include carpal tunnel syndrome, bursitis, tendonitis, epicondylitis, ganglion cyst, tenosynovitis, and trigger finger.
RMDs are caused by too many uninterrupted repetitions of an activity or motion, unnatural or awkward motions such as twisting the arm or wrist, overexertion, incorrect posture, or muscle fatigue.
RMDs occur most commonly in the hands, wrists, elbows, and shoulders, but can also happen in the neck, back, hips, knees, feet, legs, and ankles.
The disorders are characterized by pain, tingling, numbness, visible swelling or redness of the affected area, and the loss of flexibility and strength.
For some individuals, there may be no visible sign of injury, although they may find it hard to perform easy tasks Over time, RMDs can cause temporary or permanent damage to the soft tissues in the body -- such as the muscles, nerves, tendons, and ligaments - and compression of nerves or tissue.
Generally, RMDs affect individuals who perform repetitive tasks such as assembly line work, meatpacking, sewing, playing musical instruments, and computer work.
The disorders may also affect individuals who engage in activities such as carpentry, gardening, and tennis.
What is the GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus - the opening through which stool leaves the body.
Food is digested by the movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes.
Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine - which includes the appendix, cecum, colon, and rectum - and anus.
The intestines are sometimes called the bowel.
The last part of the GI tract - called the lower GI tract - consists of the large intestine and anus.
What research is being done for Brachial Plexus Injuries?
The NINDS conducts and supports research on injuries to the nervous system such as brachial plexus injuries.
Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.
What kinds of activity should I do?
Muscle-strengthening activities make your muscles stronger.
Muscle-strengthening activities include lifting weights and using resistance bands.
What is Iliotibial band syndrome?
Iliotibial band syndrome is an inflammatory condition caused when a band of tissue rubs over the outer bone lateral condyle of the knee.
How Can I Help?
CDC receives calls and e-mails from individuals asking how they can help make a difference in the fight against rabies.
What research is being done for Schilder's Disease?
The NINDS supports and conducts an extensive research program on demyelinating disorders such as Schilder's disease.
Much of this research focuses on learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
When should you wear repellent?
Mosquitoes can bite anytime.
Most of those that carry West Nile virus bite from around sundown to around sun-up throughout the night.
Put a few bottles or packets of repellent around - in the car, by the door, in your bag.
Make it easy.
What is Carotid ultrasound?
Carotid ultrasound is a painless and harmless test that uses sound waves to create pictures of the insides of your carotid arteries.
What is Osteogenesis imperfecta OI?
Osteogenesis imperfecta OI is a genetic disorder characterized by bones that break easily, often from little or no apparent cause.
What is Hemophilia?
Hemophilia is a bleeding disorder caused by a mutation in one of the genes involved in the production of blood proteins necessary for normal blood clotting.
What Is Long QT Syndrome?
Long QT syndrome LQTS is a disorder of the heart's electrical activity.
It can cause sudden, uncontrollable, dangerous arrhythmias ah-RITH-me-ahs in response to exercise or stress.
Arrhythmias are problems with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat.
What is Heat syncope?
Heat syncope is a fainting syncope episode or dizziness that usually occurs with prolonged standing or sudden rising from a sitting or lying position.
Q.
How can veterinarians help?
A.
You should work together with your veterinarian to develop management strategies to reduce the spread of influenza among herds and to prevent the introduction and spread of flu viruses between pigs, people, and birds.
What is Aicardi Syndrome?
Typical findings in the brain of girls with Aicardi syndrome include heterotopias, which are groups of brain cells that, during development, migrated to the wrong area of brain; polymicrogyria or pachygyria, which are numerous small, or too few, brain folds; and cysts, fluid filled cavities in the brain.
Girls with Aicardi syndrome have varying degrees of intellectual disability and developmental delay.
Many girls also have developmental abnormalities of their optic nerves and some have microphthalmia small eyes.
Skeletal problems such as absent or abnormal ribs and abnormalities of vertebrae in the spinal column including hemivertebrae and butterfly vertebrae have also been reported.
Some girls also have skin problems, facial asymmetry, small hands, and an increased incidence of tumors.
Is there any treatment for Myasthenia Gravis?
Myasthenia gravis can be controlled.
Some medications improve neuromuscular transmission and increase muscle strength, and some suppress the production of abnormal antibodies.
These medications must be used with careful medical follow up because they may cause major side effects.
Thymectomy, the surgical removal of the thymus gland which often is abnormal in those with myasthenia gravis, improves symptoms in certain individuals Other therapies include plasmapheresis, a procedure in which abnormal antibodies are removed from the blood, and high-dose intravenous immune globulin, which temporarily modifies the immune system and provides the body with normal antibodies from donated blood.
How are inguinal hernias diagnosed?
A health care provider diagnoses an inguinal hernia with.
Want to learn more?
You are probably already aware that regular physical activity is important for good health, but did you know that it's especially important if you're trying to lose weight or to maintain a healthy weight?
What is Ileoanal reservoir surgery?
Ileoanal reservoir surgery is an option when the large intestine is removed but the anus remains intact and disease-free.
Is there any treatment for Hypertonia?
Muscle relaxing drugs such as baclofen, diazepam, and dantrolene may be prescribed to reduce spasticity.
All of these drugs can be taken by mouth, but baclofen may also be injected directly into the cerebrospinal fluid through an implanted pump.
Botulinum toxin is often used to relieve hypertonia in a specific area of the body because its effects are local, not body-wide.
People with hypertonia should try to preserve as much movement as possibly by exercising within their limits and using physical therapy.
What is Intrinsic factor?
Intrinsic factor is a protein made in the stomach
What is Ibrutinib?
Ibrutinib is a selective irreversible inhibitor of Bruton tyrosine kinase, a signaling molecule located upstream in the B-cell receptor signaling cascade.
How Is Sleep Apnea Treated?
If you continue to have daytime sleepiness despite treatment, your doctor may ask whether you're getting enough sleep.
Adults should get at least 7 to 8 hours of sleep; children and teens need more.
For more information, go to the Health Topics Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency article..
What research is being done for Asperger?
In 1997, at the request of Congress, the NIH formed its Autism Coordinating Committee NIH/ACC to enhance the quality, pace, and coordination of efforts at the NIH to find a cure for autism http://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/autism-spectrum-disorders-pervasive-developmental-disorders/nih-initiatives/nih-autism-coordinating-committee.shtml.
The NIH/ACC involves the participation of seven NIH Institutes and Centers: the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, the National Institute of Mental Health, the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, the National Institute of Nursing Research, and the National Center on Complementary and Alternative Medicine.
The NIH/ACC has been instrumental in the understanding of and advances in ASD research.
The NIH/ACC also participates in the broader Federal Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee IACC that is composed of representatives from various component agencies of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, as well as the U.S.
Department of Education and other government organizations.
What is ostomy surgery of the bowel?
Ostomy surgery of the bowel, also known as bowel diversion, refers to surgical procedures that reroute the normal movement of intestinal contents out of the body when part of the bowel is diseased or removed.
Creating an ostomy means bringing part of the intestine through the abdominal wall so that waste exits through the abdominal wall instead of passing through the anus.
How Is Coronary Heart Disease Treated?
Treatments for coronary heart disease CHD include lifestyle changes, medicines, and medical procedures.
Treatment goals may include:
How is the intradermal vaccine supplied?
The intradermal vaccine is supplied in a single-dose, preservative-free without thimerosal, prefilled syringe.
What is Developmental dyspraxia?
Developmental dyspraxia is a disorder characterized by an impairment in the ability to plan and carry out sensory and motor tasks.
Where can I get calcium and vitamin D?
Dairy products are the primary food sources of calcium.
Choose low-fat milk, yogurt, cheeses, ice cream, or products made or served with these choices to fulfill your daily requirement.
Three servings of dairy products per day should give you at least 900 mg milligrams of calcium.
Green vegetables are another source.
A cup of broccoli, for example, has about 136 mg of calcium.
How Is the Cause of Cough Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose the cause of your cough based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
Is physical activity for everyone?
Yes! People of all ages and body types benefit from physical activity.
Even if you feel out-of-shape or haven't been active in a long time, you can find activities that will work for you.
What Is Diabetic Heart Disease?
The term diabetic heart disease DHD refers to heart disease that develops in people who have diabetes.
Compared with people who don't have diabetes, people who have diabetes:
What do People With Lupu Need to Know About Osteoporosi?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33578377.xml:
What is the prognosis for Brachial Plexus Injuries?
The site and type of brachial plexus injury determines the prognosis.
For avulsion and rupture injuries, there is no potential for recovery unless surgical reconnection is made in a timely manner.
The potential for recovery varies for neuroma and neuropraxia injuries.
Most individuals with neuropraxia injuries recover spontaneously with a 90-100% return of function.
Is diverticular disease serious?
Most people with the disease do not have serious problems, but some people have severe symptoms.
Diverticulitis can attack suddenly and cause.
What are the different types of mucolipidoses?
Symptoms of ML I are either present at birth or develop within the first year of life.
In many infants with ML I, excessive swelling throughout the body is noted at birth.
These infants are often born with coarse facial features, such as a flat nasal bridge, puffy eyelids, enlargement of the gums, and excessive tongue size macroglossia.
Many infants with ML I are also born with skeletal malformations such as hip dislocation.
Infants often develop sudden involuntary muscle contractions called myoclonus and have red spots in their eyes called cherry-red macules.
They are often unable to coordinate voluntary movement called ataxia.
Tremors, impaired vision, and seizures also occur in children with ML I.
Tests reveal abnormal enlargement of the liver and spleen and extreme abdominal swelling.
Infants with ML I generally lack muscle tone hypotonia and have mental retardation that is either initially or progressively severe.
Many patients suffer from failure to thrive and from recurrent respiratory infections.
Most infants with ML I die before the age of 1 year.
What could raise my cholesterol?
There are no signs or symptoms of high cholesterol.
That's why it's so important to get your cholesterol checked.
What research is being done for Cerebellar Degeneration?
The NINDS funds research to find the genes involved in diseases that cause cerebellar degeneration.
Discovering these genes, identifying their mutations, and understanding how the abnormal proteins they produce cause cerebellar degeneration may eventually help scientists find ways to prevent, treat, and even cure the diseases that involve cerebellar degeneration.
What is Breast cancer?
Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women.
What is Lipoid proteinosis LP?
Lipoid proteinosis LP is a rare disease that affects the skin and the brain.
What should you expect while Using CPAP?
Talk with your sleep specialist about how to handle followup questions.
He or she can answer some questions, but your home equipment provider may need to address others.
Ask your sleep specialist to recommend a home equipment provider that has a lot of experience with CPAP.
Who Is at Risk for Heart Disease?
Women generally have the same CHD risk factors as men.
However, some risk factors may affect women differently than men.
For example, diabetes raises the risk of CHD more in women.
Also, some risk factors, such as birth control pills and menopause, only affect women.
What is a BMI percentile?
After BMI is calculated for children and teens, the BMI number is plotted on the CDC BMI-for-age growth charts for either girls or boys to obtain a percentile ranking.
Percentiles are the most commonly used indicator to assess the size and growth patterns of individual children in the United States.
The percentile indicates the relative position of the child's BMI number among children of the same sex and age.
The growth charts show the weight status categories used with children and teens underweight, healthy weight, overweight, and obese.
How Can You Prevent Type 2 Diabetes?
If you have prediabetes or have a higher risk for type 2 diabetes based on the risk factors listed above, you also can reduce your risk by participating in a lifestyle change program that offers advice on healthy eating, physical activity and coping skills in a structured group setting.
The National Diabetes Prevention Program, managed by CDC, is working with community-based organizations and insurers to bring proven lifestyle change programs to communities across America.
You can find information on program locations from CDC's list of recognized programs and from YMCA of the USA.
How is the Disease Treated?
At present, there is no cure for PD, but medications or surgery can often provide improvement in the motor symptoms.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
Who Needs Stress Testing?
Imaging stress tests, especially, can show whether you have coronary heart disease CHD or a heart valve problem.
Heart valves are like doors; they open and shut to let blood flow between the heart's chambers and into the heart's arteries.
So, like CHD, faulty heart valves can limit the amount of blood reaching your heart..
What is genetic counseling?
Genetic counseling is when a trained health professional talks with you about your family health history.
Some diseases, such as breast and ovarian cancer, can run in families.
Genetic counseling can help you decide whether to get genetic tests.
What is Huntington's Disease?
Huntington's disease HD results from genetically programmed degeneration of brain cells, called neurons, in certain areas of the brain.
This degeneration causes uncontrolled movements, loss of intellectual faculties, and emotional disturbance.
HD is a familial disease, passed from parent to child through a mutation in the normal gene.
Each child of an HD parent has a 50-50 chance of inheriting the HD gene.
If a child does not inherit the HD gene, he or she will not develop the disease and cannot pass it to subsequent generations.
A person who inherits the HD gene will sooner or later develop the disease.
Whether one child inherits the gene has no bearing on whether others will or will not inherit the gene.
Some early symptoms of HD are mood swings, depression, irritability or trouble driving, learning new things, remembering a fact, or making a decision.
As the disease progresses, concentration on intellectual tasks becomes increasingly difficult and the patient may have difficulty feeding himself or herself and swallowing.
The rate of disease progression and the age of onset vary from person to person.
A genetic test, coupled with a complete medical history and neurological and laboratory tests, helps physicians diagnose HD.
Presymptomic testing is available for individuals who are at risk for carrying the HD gene.
In 1 to 3 percent of individuals with HD, no family history of HD can be found.
What research is being done for Progressive?
In addition, there is a great deal of ongoing research on Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases at the National Institutes of Health and at university medical centers throughout the country.
Better understanding of those common related disorders will go a long way toward solving the problem of PSP, just as studying PSP may help shed light on Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases.
What is Giant Axonal Neuropathy?
Giant axonal neuropathy GAN is a rare inherited genetic disorder that affects both the central and peripheral nervous systems.
The majority of children with GAN will begin to show symptoms of the disease sometime before five years of age.
Signs of GAN usually begin in the peripheral nervous system, which controls movement and sensation in the arms, legs, and other parts of the body.
The typical symptoms of GAN are clumsiness and muscle weakness that progresses from a 'waddling gait' to a pronounced difficulty in walking.
Additional symptoms include numbness or lack of feeling in the arms and legs, seizures, nystagmus rapid back and forth movement of the eyes, and mental retardation.
A characteristic sign of the disease is dull, tightly curled hair that is markedly different from the parents' in color and texture.
How does much folic acid a woman need?
400 micrograms mcg every day.
How is Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease treated?
Many CMT patients require ankle braces and other orthopedic devices to maintain everyday mobility and prevent injury.
Ankle braces can help prevent ankle sprains by providing support and stability during activities such as walking or climbing stairs.
High-top shoes or boots can also provide support for weak ankles.
Thumb splints can help with hand weakness and loss of fine motor skills.
Assistive devices should be used before disability sets in because the devices may prevent muscle strain and reduce muscle weakening.
Some individuals with CMT may decide to have orthopedic surgery to reverse foot and joint deformities.
What research is being done for Friedreich's Ataxia?
Studies have revealed that frataxin, a protein that should normally be present in the nervous system, the heart, and the pancreas, is severely reduced in patients with Friedreich's ataxia.
Studies have shown that patients have abnormally high levels of iron in their heart tissue.
It is believed that the nervous system, heart, and pancreas may be particularly susceptible to damage from free radicals produced when the excess iron reacts with oxygen because once certain cells in these tissues are destroyed by free radicals they cannot be replaced.
Nerve and muscle cells also have metabolic needs that may make them particularly vulnerable to free radical damage.
The discovery of the genetic mutation that causes Friedreich's ataxia has added new impetus to research efforts on this disease.
What is Alcoholism?
Alcoholism is the second most common cause of cirrhosis in the United States.
How Will the Doctor Know If the Drug I Take Is Working?
Your doctor will probably monitor your progress using two tests: an x ray of your bones and a blood test to measure the level of a chemical called serum alkaline phosphatase SAP in your blood.
The x rays will show your doctor pictures of how your bones are healing.
A decrease in the amount of SAP in your blood will tell your doctor that the disease is less active and you are getting better.
What is Cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that your body needs.
What is Colonoscopy?
Colonoscopy is the preferred screening method for colon cancer because it shows the entire colon.
Who Treats Paget's Disease?
Paget's disease can affect many parts of the body.
You may need to see one or more types of doctors, such as:
What Is Transesophageal Echocardiography?
Echo also can detect possible blood clots inside the heart, fluid buildup in the pericardium the sac around the heart, and problems with the aorta.
The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from your heart to your body.
What is Depression?
Depression is a real illness.
What is Dexrazoxane?
Dexrazoxane is a bisdioxopiperazine compound that readily enters cells and is subsequently hydrolyzed to form a chelating agent.
What is Stem cell transplant?
Stem cell transplant is a method of replacing blood -forming cells that are destroyed by chemotherapy.
What is Williams Syndrome WS?
Williams Syndrome WS is a rare genetic disorder characterized by mild to moderate mental retardation or learning difficulties, a distinctive facial appearance, and a unique personality that combines over-friendliness and high levels of empathy with anxiety.
Who is CDC-INFO designed for?
CDC-INFO provides health and safety information to:
What causes primary biliary cirrhosis?
The causes of primary biliary cirrhosis are unknown.
Most research suggests it is an autoimmune disease.
The immune system protects people from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances.
An autoimmune disease is a disorder in which the body's immune system attacks the body's own cells and organs.
In primary biliary cirrhosis, the immune system attacks the small bile ducts in the liver.
What are the types of lipid storage disease?
Gaucher disease has three common clinical subtypes.
Type 1 or nonneuropathic type is the most common form of the disease.
It occurs most often among persons of Ashkenazi Jewish heritage.
Symptoms may begin early in life or in adulthood and include enlarged liver and grossly enlarged spleen, which can rupture and cause additional complications.
Skeletal weakness and bone disease may be extensive.
The brain is not affected, but there may be lung and, rarely, kidney impairment.
Patients in this group usually bruise easily due to low blood platelets and experience fatigue due to anemia.
Depending on disease onset and severity, type 1 patients may live well into adulthood.
Many patients have a mild form of the disease or may not show any symptoms.
Type 2 or acute infantile neuropathic Gaucher disease typically begins within 3 months of birth.
Symptoms include an enlarged liver and spleen, abnormal eye movement, extensive and progressive brain damage, spasticity, seizures, limb rigidity, and a poor ability to suck and swallow.
Affected children usually die before age 2.
Type 3 the chronic neuronopathic form can begin at any time in childhood or even in adulthood.
It is characterized by slowly progressive but milder neurologic symptoms compared to the acute or Type 2 Gaucher disease.
Major symptoms include an enlarged spleen and/or liver, seizures, poor coordination, skeletal irregularities, eye movement disorders, blood disorders including anemia, and respiratory problems.
Patients often live to their early teen years and, in some cases, into adulthood.
What is A BMI of less than 25?
A BMI of less than 25 is the goal for preventing and treating CHD.
What is the prognosis for Hypertonia?
The prognosis depends upon the severity of the hypertonia and its cause.
In some cases, such as cerebral palsy, the hypertonia may not change over the course of a lifetime.
in other cases, the hypertonia may worsen along with the underlying disease If the hypertonia is mild, it has little or no effect on a person's health.
If there is moderate hypertonia, falls or joint contractures may have an impact on a person's health and safety.
If the hypertonia is so severe that is caused immobility, potential consequences include increased bone fragility and fracture, infection, bed sores, and pneumonia.
Is there any treatment for Glossopharyngeal Neuralgia?
Most doctors will attempt to treat the pain first with drugs.
Some individuals respond well to anticonvulsant drugs, such as carbamazepine and gabapentin.
Surgical options, including nerve resection, tractotomy, or microvascular decompression, should be considered when individuals either don't respond to, or stop responding to, drug therapy.
Surgery is usually successful at ending the cycles of pain, although there may be some sensory loss in the mouth, throat, or tongue.
What is A liver biopsy?
A liver biopsy is a procedure that involves taking a piece of liver tissue for examination with a microscope for signs of damage or disease.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of an Aneurysm?
The signs and symptoms of an aortic aneurysm depend on the type and location of the aneurysm.
Signs and symptoms also depend on whether the aneurysm has ruptured burst or is affecting other parts of the body.
What is the prognosis for Shaken Baby Syndrome?
In comparison with accidental traumatic brain injury in infants, shaken baby injuries have a much worse prognosis.
Damage to the retina of the eye can cause blindness.
The majority of infants who survive severe shaking will have some form of neurological or mental disability, such as cerebral palsy or mental retardation, which may not be fully apparent before 6 years of age.
Children with shaken baby syndrome may require lifelong medical care.
What causes COPD?
In the United States, tobacco smoke is a key factor in the development and progression of COPD, although exposure to air pollutants in the home and workplace, genetic factors, and respiratory infections also play a role.
In the developing world, indoor air quality is thought to play a larger role in the development and progression of COPD than it does in the United States.
How long has canine influenza been around?
The H3N8 equine influenza virus has been known to exist in horses for more than 40 years.
In 2004, however, cases of an unknown respiratory illness in dogs initially greyhounds were reported.
An investigation showed that this respiratory illness was caused by the equine influenza A H3N8 virus.
Scientists believe that this virus jumped species from horses to dogs and has now adapted to cause illness in dogs and spread efficiently among dogs.
This is now considered a new dog-specific lineage of H3N8.
In September of 2005, this virus was identified by experts as 'a newly emerging pathogen in the dog population' in the United States.
What is Deep brain stimulation DBS?
Deep brain stimulation DBS is a surgical procedure used to treat several disabling neurological symptoms - most commonly the debilitating motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease PD, such as tremor, rigidity, stiffness, slowed movement, and walking problems.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a silent disease until a fracture occurs.
3.
When is it safe to drink alcohol during pregnancy?
A During the first three months.
Will My Children Get This Disease, Too?
Paget's disease does not always run in families; however, research suggests that a close relative of someone with Paget's disease is seven times more likely to develop the disease than someone without an affected relative.
Finding and treating Paget's disease early is important, so some doctors recommend that children and siblings of a person with Paget's disease be tested for the disease every 2 to 3 years after the age of 40.
What research is being done for Fabry Disease?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, a component of the National Institutes of Health, supports research to find ways to treat and prevent lipid storage diseases such as Fabry disease.
What does a 'false-positive result' mean?
A 'false-positive result' occurs when an initial test indicates a person has Chagas disease, but further testing indicates the person does not have the disease after all.
Why isn't screening recommended for prostate cancer?
The screening tests for prostate cancer that are available now can't tell if you have a cancer that will cause problems or not.
What do you think are the biggest threats or challenges to bioterrorism preparedness today?
Complacency 10 years have passed without another major incident leading to funding reductions which negatively impact state and local preparedness efforts.
Lack of healthcare surge capacity and medical countermeasures including new antimicrobial agents to address the threat posed by genetically engineered organisms which is markedly increased today compared with 10 years ago.
Just in time economy introduces additional preparedness challenges.
Who Is at Risk for Sleep Apnea?
People who have small airways in their noses, throats, or mouths are more likely to have sleep apnea.
Small airways might be due to the shape of these structures or allergies or other conditions that cause congestion.
Is there any treatment for Neuroacanthocytosis?
There are currently no treatments to prevent or slow the progression of neuroacanthocytosis and treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
Medications that block dopamine, such as some of the antipsychotics, may decrease the involuntary movements.
Botulinum toxin injections usually improve symptoms of dystonia.
A feeding tube may be needed for individuals with feeding difficulties to maintain proper nutrition.
Seizures may be treated with a variety of anticonvulsants, and antidepressants may also be appropriate for some individuals.
Speech, occupational, and physical therapy may also be beneficial.
What Is the Prognosis for People Who Have Paget's Disease?
Paget's disease is rarely fatal.
For most people with the disorder, the prognosis is good, particularly if they begin treatment before major changes have occurred in the affected bones.
Because early diagnosis and treatment is important to minimize complications, doctors may recommend that family members of people with Paget's disease who face an increased risk of the disorder themselves have an alkaline phosphatase blood test every 2 to 3 years beginning around age 40.
If the level is elevated, suggesting possible Paget's disease, bone scans or x rays may be used to verify the diagnosis, so that treatment can begin early in the disease process.
Although treatment is effective at controlling symptoms and minimizing the risk of complications, it cannot cure Paget's disease.
A small percentage of people with Paget's disease - perhaps less than 1 in 1,000 - develop a rare type of bone cancer called osteosarcoma, which may be treated with surgery, radiation, and/or chemotherapy.
What Is Heart Surgery?
Heart surgery is used for both children and adults.
This article discusses heart surgery for adults.
For more information about heart surgery for children, go to the Health Topics articles about congenital heart defects, holes in the heart, and tetralogy of Fallot.
How important is a blockage as a cause of stroke?
A blockage of a blood vessel is the most frequent cause of stroke and is responsible for about 80 percent of the approximately 700,000 strokes in the United States each year.
With nearly 150,000 stroke deaths each year, stroke ranks as the fourth leading killer in the United States.
Stroke is the leading cause of adult disability in the United States with 2 million of the 3 million Americans who have survived a stroke sustaining some permanent disability.
The overall cost of stroke to the nation is $40 billion a year.
How Are Thalassemias Diagnosed?
Doctors also test the amount of iron in the blood to find out whether the anemia is due to iron deficiency or thalassemia.
Iron-deficiency anemia occurs if the body doesn't have enough iron to make hemoglobin.
The anemia in thalassemia occurs because of a problem with either the alpha globin or beta globin chains of hemoglobin, not because of a lack of iron.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a disease that causes the skeleton to weaken and the bones to break.
How Is Sickle Cell Anemia Diagnosed?
Doctors also can diagnose sickle cell disease before birth.
This is done using a sample of amniotic fluid or tissue taken from the placenta.
Amniotic fluid is the fluid in the sac surrounding a growing embryo.
The placenta is the organ that attaches the umbilical cord to the mother's womb..
What is Dietary fructose intolerance?
Dietary fructose intolerance is a condition in which people have digestive symptoms - such as bloating, gas, and diarrhea - after consuming foods that contain fructose.
What research is being done for Tremor?
Scientists at the NINDS are evaluating the effectiveness of 1-octanol and octanic acid, substances closely related to alcohol but not intoxicating, for treating essential termor.
Results of two previous NIH studies have shown this agent to be promising as a potential new treatment.
A current study is trying to find out how alcohol is capable of reducing tremor in essential tremor.
NINDS further conducts research to find the genes that causes essential tremor.
What Kind of Care Does the Individual with HD Need?
Impaired coordination may make it difficult for people with HD to feed themselves and to swallow.
As the disease progresses, persons with HD may even choke.
In helping individuals to eat, caregivers should allow plenty of time for meals.
Food can be cut into small pieces, softened, or pureed to ease swallowing and prevent choking.
While some foods may require the addition of thickeners, other foods may need to be thinned.
Dairy products, in particular, tend to increase the secretion of mucus, which in turn increases the risk of choking.
Some individuals may benefit from swallowing therapy, which is especially helpful if started before serious problems arise.
Suction cups for plates, special tableware designed for people with disabilities, and plastic cups with tops can help prevent spilling.
The individual's physician can offer additional advice about diet and about how to handle swallowing difficulties or gastrointestinal problems that might arise, such as incontinence or constipation.
What does you should know:?
Age-related declines in vision and cognitive functioning ability to reason and remember, as well as physical changes such as arthritis or reduced strength, may affect some older adults' driving abilities.
What is the prognosis for Sandhoff Disease?
The prognosis for individuals with Sandhoff disease is poor.
Death usually occurs by age 3 and is generally caused by respiratory infections.
How is Guillain-Barre syndrome diagnosed?
Several disorders have symptoms similar to those found in Guillain-Barre, so doctors examine and question patients carefully before making a diagnosis.
Collectively, the signs and symptoms form a certain pattern that helps doctors differentiate Guillain-Barre from other disorders.
For example, physicians will note whether the symptoms appear on both sides of the body most common in Guillain-Barre and the quickness with which the symptoms appear in other disorders, muscle weakness may progress over months rather than days or weeks.
In Guillain-Barre, reflexes such as knee jerks are usually lost.
Because the signals traveling along the nerve are slower, a nerve conduction velocity NCV test can give a doctor clues to aid the diagnosis.
In Guillain-Barre patients, the cerebrospinal fluid that bathes the spinal cord and brain contains more protein than usual.
Therefore a physician may decide to perform a spinal tap, a procedure in which a needle is inserted into the patient's lower back and a small amount of cerebrospinal fluid from the spinal column is withdrawn for study.
What is the prognosis for Motor?
Prognosis varies depending on the type of MND and the age of onset.
Some MNDs, such as PLS or Kennedy's disease, are not fatal and progress slowly.
People with SMA may appear to be stable for long periods, but improvement should not be expected.
Some MNDs, such as ALS and some forms of SMA, are fatal.
What is Heart failure?
Heart failure is a condition in which your heart can't pump enough blood to meet your body's needs.
What is the prognosis for Klippel-Trenaunay?
KTS is often a progressive disorder, and complications may be life-threatening.
However, many individuals can live well while managing their symptoms.
What causes skin cancer?
Ultraviolet UV radiation from the sun is the main cause of skin cancer.
UV radiation can also come from tanning booths or sunlamps.
Do I need to see a doctor to get birth control?
It depends on which birth control method you choose.
You can buy some birth control over the counter.
Over the counter means you can buy it at a store without a prescription.
For other methods, you will need to see a doctor or nurse.
What is Flexible sigmoidoscopy?
Flexible sigmoidoscopy is a test that uses a flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end, called a sigmoidoscope or scope, to look inside the rectum and the lower, or sigmoid, colon.
What are A lower GI series?
A lower GI series is an x-ray exam that is used to look at the large intestine.
What biosafety and biosecurity precautions for protecting laboratory workers and the public were in place while this work was being done?
Before the experiments were begun, two tiers of internal CDC approval were conducted: an Institutional Biosafety Committee review and an Animal Care and Use Committee review.
All viruses containing one or more gene segments from the 1918 influenza virus were generated and handled in accordance with biosafety guidelines of the Interim CDC-NIH Recommendation for Raising the Biosafety Level Laboratory Work Involving Noncontemporary Human Influenza Viruses.
Although the 1918 virus was not designated as a select agent at the time this work was performed, all procedures were carried out using the heightened biosecurity elements mandated by CDC's Select Agent program.
The Intra-governmental Select Agents and Toxins Technical Advisory Committee recommended that the reconstructed 1918 influenza virus be added to the list of HHS select agents on September 30, 2005.
Following this recommendation, CDC amended its regulations and designated all reconstructed replication competent forms of the 1918 pandemic influenza virus containing any portion of the coding regions of all eight gene segments reconstructed 1918 Influenza virus as a select agent.
What is Neuromyelitis optica NMO?
Neuromyelitis optica NMO is an uncommon disease syndrome of the central nervous system CNS that affects the optic nerves and spinal cord.
How is appendicitis diagnosed?
If a person does not have the usual symptoms, health care providers may use laboratory and imaging tests to confirm appendicitis.
These tests also may help diagnose appendicitis in people who cannot adequately describe their symptoms, such as children or people who are mentally impaired.
What is the prognosis for Encephalitis Lethargica?
The course of encephalitis lethargica varies depending upon complications or accompanying disorders.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation?
With acute DIC, blood clotting in the blood vessels usually occurs first, followed by bleeding.
However, bleeding may be the first obvious sign.
Serious bleeding can occur very quickly after developing acute DIC.
Thus, emergency treatment in a hospital is needed.
Is there any treatment for Microcephaly?
There is no treatment for microcephaly that can return a child's head to a normal size or shape.
Treatment focuses on ways to decrease the impact of the associated deformities and neurological disabilities.
Children with microcephaly and developmental delays are usually evaluated by a pediatric neurologist and followed by a medical management team.
Early childhood intervention programs that involve physical, speech, and occupational therapists help to maximize abilities and minimize dysfunction.
Medications are often used to control seizures, hyperactivity, and neuromuscular symptoms.
Genetic counseling may help families understand the risk for microcephaly in subsequent pregnancies.
What Is the Treatment for Paget's Disease?
The goals of Paget's disease treatment are to control excessive bone breakdown and formation, reduce the risk of complications, and ease bone and joint pain.
In more severe, advanced cases it may also involve repairing fractures, correcting bone deformity, and replacing joints damaged by the disease.
Treatment includes the following:
How is it Diagnosed?
Generally, a physician will examine the individual for upper and lower facial weakness.
In most cases this weakness is limited to one side of the face or occasionally isolated to the forehead, eyelid, or mouth.
A test called electromyography EMG can confirm the presence of nerve damage and determine the severity and the extent of nerve involvement.
Blood tests can sometimes be helpful in diagnosing other concurrent problems such as diabetes and certain infections.
A magnetic resonance imaging MRI or computed tomography CT scan can eliminate other structural causes of pressure on the facial nerve.
What Is Heart Failure?
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs.
In some cases, the heart can't fill with enough blood.
In other cases, the heart can't pump blood to the rest of the body with enough force.
Some people have both problems.
What are Arachnoid Cysts?
Arachnoid cysts are cerebrospinal fluid-filled sacs that are located between the brain or spinal cord and the arachnoid membrane, one of the three membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord.
Primary arachnoid cysts are present at birth and are the result of developmental abnormalities in the brain and spinal cord that arise during the early weeks of gestation.
Secondary arachnoid cysts are not as common as primary cysts and develop as a result of head injury, meningitis, or tumors, or as a complication of brain surgery.
The majority of arachnoid cysts form outside the temporal lobe of the brain in an area of the skull known as the middle cranial fossa.
Arachnoid cysts involving the spinal cord are rarer.
The location and size of the cyst determine the symptoms and when those symptoms begin.
Most individuals with arachnoid cysts develop symptoms before the age of 20, and especially during the first year of life, but some people with arachnoid cysts never have symptoms.
Males are four times more likely to have arachnoid cysts than females.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Cardiomyopathy?
Other signs and symptoms may include dizziness; light-headedness; fainting during physical activity; arrhythmias irregular heartbeats; chest pain, especially after physical exertion or heavy meals; and heart murmurs.
Heart murmurs are extra or unusual sounds heard during a heartbeat..
What foods will fill me up?
For These foods will fill you up with less calories.
Choose them more often.
: Fruits and Vegetables prepared without added fat Brown rice, whole wheat bread, whole wheat pastas, popcorn, , These foods can pack more calories into each bite.
Choose them less often.
: Fried foods is Croissants,margarine, shortening and butter, doughnuts, candy bars, cakes and pastries!
How much sleep do I need?
Most adults need 7 to 8 hours of sleep each night.
If you are having trouble sleeping, make changes to your routine to get the sleep you need.
What is Cerebral Aneurysms?
A cerebral aneurysm is a weak or thin spot on a blood vessel in the brain that balloons out and fills with blood.
An aneurysm can press on a nerve or surrounding tissue, and also leak or burst, which lets blood spill into surrounding tissues called a hemorrhage.
Cerebral aneurysms can occur at any age, although they are more common in adults than in children and are slightly more common in women than in men.
The signs and symptoms of an unruptured cerebral aneurysm will partly depend on its size and rate of growth.
For example, a small, unchanging aneurysm will generally produce no symptoms, whereas a larger aneurysm that is steadily growing may produce symptoms such as headache, numbness, loss of feeling in the face or problems with the eyes.
Immediately after an aneurysm ruptures, an individual may experience such symptoms as a sudden and unusually severe headache, nausea, vision impairment, vomiting, and loss of consciousness.
What Is Vasculitis?
Vasculitis vas-kyu-LI-tis is a condition that involves inflammation in the blood vessels.
The condition occurs if your immune system attacks your blood vessels by mistake.
This may happen as the result of an infection, a medicine, or another disease or condition.
Who gets PSC?
Most people with PSC are adults but the disease also occurs in children.
The average age at diagnosis is 40.
PSC is more common in men than women.
Having family members with PSC may increase a person's risk for developing PSC.
Where is Vitamin B12 also located?
Vitamin B12 also is found in multivitamins and B-complex vitamin supplements.
What is Transverse myelitis?
Transverse myelitis is a neurological disorder caused by inflammation across both sides of one level, or segment, of the spinal cord.
What Is Percutaneous Coronary Intervention?
Percutaneous per-ku-TA-ne-us coronary intervention PCI, commonly known as coronary angioplasty AN-jee-oh-plas-tee or simply angioplasty, is a non-surgical procedure used to open narrow or blocked coronary heart arteries.

What is the prognosis for Iniencephaly?
The prognosis for infants with iniencephaly is extremely poor.
Newborns seldom survive much past childbirth.
The distortions of the baby's body also pose a danger to the mother's life during delivery.
What Is Raynaud's?
Vasospasm of the arteries reduces blood flow to the fingers and toes.
In people who have Raynaud's, the disorder usually affects the fingers.
In about 40 percent of people who have Raynaud's, it affects the toes.
Rarely, the disorder affects the nose, ears, nipples, and lips.
What is Physical exertion?
Physical exertion is the most common trigger of stable angina.
What types of infections can people get from medical procedures?
Infections people get from a visit to the hospital, health clinic, or doctor's office are called healthcare-associated infections HAIs.
What Is Bronchiectasis?
Bronchiectasis often is caused by an infection or other condition that injures the walls of the airways or prevents the airways from clearing mucus.
Mucus is a slimy substance.
It helps remove inhaled dust, bacteria, and other small particles from the airways.
Who should not get hepatitis B vaccine?
Note: You might be asked to wait 28 days before donating blood after getting hepatitis B vaccine.
This is because the screening test could mistake vaccine in the bloodstream which is not infectious for hepatitis B infection.
What should you expect during a Sleep Study?
Most of your contact at the sleep center will be with nurses or technicians.
They can answer questions about the test itself, but they usually can't give you the test results.
What is the prognosis for Parry-Romberg?
The prognosis for individuals with Parry-Romberg syndrome varies.
In some cases, the atrophy ends before the entire face is affected.
In mild cases, the disorder usually causes no disability other than cosmetic effects.
What is High blood cholesterol?
High blood cholesterol is a condition in which your blood has too much cholesterol - a waxy, fat-like substance.
How can I learn more about HPV and HPV vaccine?
Get your questions about HPV vaccine answered by checking out HPV Vaccine - Questions & Answers.
Is there any treatment for Farber's Disease?
Currently there is no specific treatment for Farber's disease.
Corticosteroids can help relieve pain.
Nodes can be treated with bone marrow transplants, in certain instances, or may be surgically reduced or removed.
How can inguinal hernias be prevented?
People cannot prevent the weakness in the abdominal wall that causes indirect inguinal hernias.
However, people may be able to prevent direct inguinal hernias by maintaining a healthy weight and not smoking.
What is irritable bowel syndrome IBS?
Irritable bowel syndrome is a functional gastrointestinal GI disorder, meaning symptoms are caused by changes in how the GI tract works.
People with a functional GI disorder have frequent symptoms; however, the GI tract does not become damaged.
IBS is a group of symptoms that occur together, not a disease.
In the past, IBS was called colitis, mucous colitis, spastic colon, nervous colon, and spastic bowel.
The name was changed to reflect the understanding that the disorder has both physical and mental causes and is not a product of a person's imagination.
What is Health Literacy?
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, Title V, defines health literacy as the degree to which an individual has the capacity to obtain, communicate, process, and understand basic health information and services to make appropriate health decisions.
What research is being done for Central Pain Syndrome?
The NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for chronic pain and nervous system damage.
The goals of this research are to develop ways to more effectively treat and potentially reverse debilitating conditions such as central pain syndrome.
What Is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
The animation below shows a deep vein blood clot.
Click the start button to play the animation.
Written and spoken explanations are provided with each frame.
Use the buttons in the lower right corner to pause, restart, or replay the animation, or use the scroll bar below the buttons to move through the frames.
What is Skin biopsy?
Skin biopsy is a test in which doctors remove a thin skin sample and examine nerve fiber endings.
What are the symptoms of giardiasis?
These symptoms may also lead to weight loss.
Some people with Giardia infection have no symptoms at all.
Can people with TS control their tics?
Although the symptoms of TS are involuntary, some people can sometimes suppress, camouflage, or otherwise manage their tics in an effort to minimize their impact on functioning.
However, people with TS often report a substantial buildup in tension when suppressing their tics to the point where they feel that the tic must be expressed against their will.
Tics in response to an environmental trigger can appear to be voluntary or purposeful but are not.
What is the course of MS?
Finally, there are some rare and unusual variants of MS.
One of these is Marburg variant MS also called malignant MS, which causes a swift and relentless decline resulting in significant disability or even death shortly after disease onset.
Balo's concentric sclerosis, which causes concentric rings of demyelination that can be seen on an MRI, is another variant type of MS that can progress rapidly.
What Causes the Disease?
Parkinson's disease occurs when nerve cells, or neurons, in the brain die or become impaired.
The main area affected is an area near the base of the brain called the substantia nigra.
Normally, the neurons in this area produce an important brain chemical known as dopamine.
Dopamine is a chemical messenger responsible for transmitting signals between the substantia nigra and the next relay station of the brain, the corpus striatum, to produce smooth, purposeful movement.
Loss of dopamine results in abnormal nerve firing patterns within the brain that cause impaired movement.
Studies have shown that most people with Parkinson's have lost 60 to 80 percent or more of the dopamine-producing cells in the substantia nigra by the time symptoms appear, and that people with PD also have loss of the nerve endings that produce the neurotransmitter norepinephrine.
Norepinephrine, which is closely related to dopamine, is the main chemical messenger of the sympathetic nervous system, the part of the nervous system that controls many automatic functions of the body, such as pulse and blood pressure.
The loss of norepinephrine might explain several of the non-motor features seen in PD, including fatigue and abnormalities of blood pressure regulation.
What is Myotonia congenita?
Myotonia congenita is an inherited neuromuscular disorder characterized by the inability of muscles to quickly relax after a voluntary contraction.
What are lipids?
These fatty materials are stored naturally in the body's cells, organs, and tissues.
Minute bodies within cells called lysosomes regularly convert, or metabolize, the lipids and proteins into smaller components to provide energy for the body.
Disorders in which intracellular material is stored are called lysosomal storage diseases.
In addition to lipid storage diseases, other lysosomal storage diseases include the mucolipidoses, in which excessive amounts of lipids and sugar molecules are stored in the cells and tissues, and the mucopolysaccharidoses, in which excessive amounts of sugar molecules are stored.
What is Dysgraphia?
Dysgraphia is a neurological disorder characterized by writing disabilities.
Specifically, the disorder causes a person's writing to be distorted or incorrect.
In children, the disorder generally emerges when they are first introduced to writing.
They make inappropriately sized and spaced letters, or write wrong or misspelled words, despite thorough instruction.
Children with the disorder may have other learning disabilities; however, they usually have no social or other academic problems.
Cases of dysgraphia in adults generally occur after some trauma.
In addition to poor handwriting, dysgraphia is characterized by wrong or odd spelling, and production of words that are not correct i.e., using boy for child.
The cause of the disorder is unknown, but in adults, it is usually associated with damage to the parietal lobe of the brain.
What is Echocardiography echo?
Echocardiography echo is the main test for diagnosing heart valve disease.
What is Barth Syndrome?
Barth syndrome BTHS is a rare, genetic disorder of lipid metabolism that primarily affects males.
It is caused by a mutation in the tafazzin gene TAZ, also called G4.5 which leads to decreased production of an enzyme required to produce cardiolipin.
Cardiolipin is an essential lipid that is important in energy metabolism.
BTHS, which affects multiple body systems, is considered serious.
Its main characteristics often include combinations in varying degrees of cardiomyopathy a disorder of the heart muscle leading to a poorly functioning heart, neutropenia a reduction in the number of white blood cells which may lead to an increased risk for bacterial infections, hypotonia reduced muscle tone, muscle weakness, undeveloped skeletal muscles, delayed growth, lack of stamina, varying degrees of physical disability, and methylglutaconic aciduria an increase in an organic acid that results in abnormal mitochondria function.
Although some with BTHS may have all of these characteristics, others may have only one or two, and, thus, are often misdiagnosed.
BTHS is an X-linked genetic condition passed from mother to son through the X chromosome.
A mother who is a carrier of BTHS shows no signs or symptoms of the disorder herself.
On average, 50 percent of children born to a carrier mother will inherit the defective gene, but only boys will develop symptoms.
All daughters born to an affected male will be carriers.
Is the public at risk from the experiments being done on this virus?
The work described in this report was done using stringent biosafety and biosecurity precautions that are designed to protect workers and the public from possible exposure to this virus for example, from accidental release of the virus into the environment.
How much iron do I need?
For Age/Group Recommended Dietary Allowance RDA for iron by age and sex., Recommended Dietary Allowance RDA for iron by age and sex.
is Life Stage and Recommended Dietary Allowance RDA for iron by age and sex.
is Iron mg/day!
What research is being done for Dementia?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to dementia in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional dementia research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Current research focuses on many different aspects of dementia.
This research promises to improve the lives of people affected by the dementias and may eventually lead to ways of preventing or curing these disorders.
How can I help my child build healthy relationships?
Families have different rules about when it's okay for kids to start dating.
Whatever your family rules are, the best time to start talking about healthy relationships is before your child starts dating.
Who Needs a Ventilator?
During surgery if you're under anesthesia that is, if you're given medicine that makes you sleep and/or causes a loss of feeling.
What do I ask the doctor?
Visiting the doctor can be stressful.
It helps to have questions written down ahead of time.
You may also want to ask a family member or close friend to come with you to take notes.
What research is being done for Sjoegren's Syndrome?
The goals of research on disorders such as Sjoegren's syndrome focus on increasing knowledge and understanding of the disorder, improving diagnostic techniques, testing interventions, and finding ways to treat, prevent, and cure the disease.
What Are the Symptoms of HFMD?
Symptoms usually begin with a fever, reduced appetite, sore throat, and a feeling of being unwell.
A day or two after the fever starts, painful sores can develop in the mouth.
A skin rash with flat red spots may also develop on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet.
Sometimes a rash also occurs on the knees, elbows, and buttocks.
This rash may blister but won't itch.
Where do the livers for transplants come from?
All donated livers and living donors are tested before transplant surgery.
The testing makes sure the donor liver works as it should, matches your blood type, and is the right size, so it has the best chance of working in your body.
Adults usually receive the entire liver from a deceased donor.
Sometimes only a portion of a whole liver from a deceased donor is used to fit a smaller person.
In some cases, a liver from a deceased donor is split into two parts.
The smaller part may go to a child, and the larger part may go to an adult.
What is Myotonia?
Myotonia is a medical term that refers to a neuromuscular condition in which the relaxation of a muscle is impaired.
It can affect any muscle group.
Repeated effort will be needed to relax the muscle, although the condition usually improves after the muscles have warmed-up.
Individuals with myotonia may have trouble releasing their grip on objects or may have difficulty rising from a seated position.
They may walk with a stiff, awkward gait.
Myotonia is caused by an abnormality in the muscle membrane, and is often associated with inherited neurological disorders.
Myotonia is commonly seen in individuals with myotonic muscular dystrophy, myotonia congenita, and in people who have one of a group of neurological disorders called the channelopathies, which are inherited diseases that are caused by mutations in the chloride sodium or potassium channels that regulate the muscle membrane.
Myotonia may also be triggered by exposure to cold.
Why does my child need MCV4 vaccine?
The meningococcal conjugate vaccine MCV4 protects against 4 types of meningococcal disease, an infection that doesn't happen very often, but can be very dangerous when it does.
Meningococcal meningitis is a bacterial infection that can make the lining of the brain and spinal cord swell.
This can cause brain damage, hearing loss, and learning problems.
The meningococcal bacteria can also cause sepsis, which is an infection in the blood.
This infection can lead to the loss of an arm, leg or other parts of the body.
Even if they get treatment, about 1 in 10 people with meningococcal disease will die from it.
What diseases are transmitted by ticks in the United States?
Diseases caused by tick-borne pathogens in the United States include:
What Causes Tetralogy of Fallot?
Heredity may play a role in causing tetralogy of Fallot.
An adult who has tetralogy of Fallot may be more likely than other people to have a baby with the condition.
How Can Angina Be Prevented?
You can prevent or lower your risk for angina and heart disease by making lifestyle changes and treating related conditions.
What is The H5N1 Inventory based on?
The H5N1 Inventory is based on published and publically available information identified in two ways: i a review of the literature by influenza subject matter experts and ii a bioinformatics text mining process using key words to search the existing PubMed H5N1 literature to identify relevant published materials.
Where can I find more information about Fluzone High-Dose?
More information about Fluzone High-Dose is available on the Food and Drug Administration FDA web site.
Can DVT Happen to Me?
Anyone may be at risk for DVT but the more risk factors you have, the greater your chances are of developing DVT.
What research is being done for Lipid Storage Diseases?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to lipid storage diseases in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
NINDS researchers were responsible for developing highly effective enzyme replacement therapies for Gaucher and Fabry diseases.
Scientists at the NINDS continue to study how lipids accumulate in cells and why they cause harm to the body.
The goal of this research is to develop novel approaches to the treatment of these disorders.
What is A healthy diet?
A healthy diet is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
How Is an Aneurysm Treated?
Treatment for an aortic aneurysm is based on its size.
Your doctor may recommend routine testing to make sure an aneurysm isn't getting bigger.
This method usually is used for aneurysms that are smaller than 5 centimeters about 2 inches across.
What Is Pericarditis?
The pericardium holds the heart in place and helps it work properly.
The sac is made of two thin layers of tissue that enclose your heart.
Between the two layers is a small amount of fluid.
This fluid keeps the layers from rubbing against each other and causing friction.
Is there any treatment for Miller Fisher Syndrome?
Treatment for Miller Fisher syndrome is identical to treatment for Guillain-Barre syndrome: intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg or plasmapheresis a procedure in which antibodies are removed from the blood and supportive care.
What research is being done for Pompe Disease?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS supports Pompe research through grants to major research institutions across the country.
Research related to Pompe disease is conducted in one of the laboratories of the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases NIAMS at the National Institutes of Health.
Much of Pompe-related research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure this disorder.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a painless test that creates pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels.
What are the potential health effects of mold in buildings and homes?
Mold exposure does not always present a health problem indoors.
However some people are sensitive to molds.
These people may experience symptoms such as nasal stuffiness, eye irritation, wheezing, or skin irritation when exposed to molds.
Some people may have more severe reactions to molds.
Severe reactions may occur among workers exposed to large amounts of molds in occupational settings, such as farmers working around moldy hay.
Severe reactions may include fever and shortness of breath.
Immunocompromised persons and persons with chronic lung diseases like COPD are at increased risk for opportunistic infections and may develop fungal infections in their lungs.
What is Craniosynostosis?
Craniosynostosis is a birth defect of the brain characterized by the premature closure of one or more of the fibrous joints between the bones of the skull called the cranial sutures before brain growth is complete.
Closure of a single suture is most common.
In contrast to normal skull growth, in which the skull expands uniformly to accommodate the growth of the brain, premature closure of a single suture restricts the growth in that part of the skull and promotes growth in other parts of the skull where sutures remain open.
This results in an abnormal shape of the skull, but does not prevent the brain from expanding to a normal volume.
However, when many sutures close prematurely, the skull cannot expand to accommodate the growing brain, which leads to increased pressure within the skull and impaired development of the brain.
Craniosynostosis can be gene-linked, or caused by metabolic diseases, such as rickets or an overactive thyroid.
Some cases are associated with other disorders such as microcephaly abnormally small head and hydrocephalus excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the brain.
The first sign of craniosynostosis is an abnormally shaped skull.
Other features can include signs of increased intracranial pressure, developmental delays, or mental retardation, which are caused by constriction of the growing brain.
Seizures and blindness may also occur.
Do I need any other shots to help me stay healthy?
Have a health condition like HIV that makes it harder for your body to fight off infections.
How is syringomyelia treated?
In the case of trauma-related syringomyelia, the preferred surgical approach is to operate at the level of the initial injury to expand the space around the spinal cord and decrease fluid volume.
This operation is performed outside the spinal cord.
An alternate operation is to place a shunt in the syrinx, which requires a hole to be made in the spinal cord.
Shunts may injure the spinal cord and may require replacement if they clog over time.
Many surgeons now consider shunt placement only as a last resort.
Instead, surgeons usually choose to expand the space around the spinal cord.
This is done by removing scar tissue that 'tethers' the cord in place and prevents the free flow of CSF around it, and adding a patch to expand the 'dura,' the membrane that surrounds the spinal cord and contains the CSF a procedure called expansive duraplasty.
In some cases, the vertebrae may need to be realigned to correct spinal deformity that is narrowing the spinal column.
What research is being done for Tropical Spastic Paraparesis?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to HAM/TSP in laboratories at the NIH, and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as HAM/TSP.
What is Restless legs syndrome RLS?
Restless legs syndrome RLS is a disorder that causes a strong urge to move your legs.
Do You Know Your Stroke Risk?
Many risk factors for stroke can be managed, some very successfully.
Although risk is never zero at any age, by starting early and controlling your risk factors you can lower your risk of death or disability from stroke.
With good control, the risk of stroke in most age groups can be kept below that for accidental injury or death.
What Is Cystic Fibrosis?
Inherited means the disease is passed from parents to children through genes.
People who have CF inherit two faulty genes for the disease - one from each parent.
The parents likely don't have the disease themselves.
What is Human serum albumin?
Human serum albumin is a protein found in human blood plasma that may have neuroprotective benefit in stroke.
What is the prognosis for Tethered Spinal Cord Syndrome?
With treatment, individuals with tethered spinal cord syndrome have a normal life expectancy.
However, some neurological and motor impairments may not be fully correctable.
Surgery soon after symptoms emerge appears to improve chances for recovery and can prevent further functional decline.
What is Langerhans cell histiocytosis?
Langerhans cell histiocytosis is the terminology currently preferred over histiocytosis X, eosinophilic granuloma, Abt-Letterer-Siwe disease, Hand-Schuller-Christian disease, or diffuse reticuloendotheliosis.
What Is Asthma?
According to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, asthma is a chronic lung disease that affects more than 22 million Americans, nearly 6 million of whom are children.
Asthma is becoming more common, and African Americans are especially at risk.
For people with asthma, everyday things can trigger an attack.
These triggers include air pollution, allergens, exercise, infections, emotional upset, or certain foods.
How can my environment affect my health?
The National Center for Environmental Health NCEH, part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry ATSDR, a sister agency to the CDC, are committed to keeping people safe from environmental hazards.
Each agency works to.
When should a person talk with a health care provider about gallstones?
People who think they have had a gallbladder attack should notify their health care provider.
Although these attacks usually resolve as gallstones move, complications can develop if the bile ducts remain blocked.
What should you expect during Stress Testing?
The electrodes will be connected to an EKG electrocardiogram machine.
This machine records your heart's electrical activity.
It shows how fast your heart is beating and the heart's rhythm steady or irregular.
An EKG also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through your heart.
What is the prognosis for Neurological Sequelae Of Lupus?
The prognosis for lupus varies widely depending on the organs involved and the intensity of the inflammatory reaction.
The course of lupus is commonly chronic and relapsing, often with long periods of remission.
Most individuals with lupus do not develop serious health problems and have a normal lifespan with periodic doctor visits and treatments with various drugs.
What Causes Holes in the Heart?
Mothers of children who are born with atrial septal defects ASDs, ventricular septal defects VSDs, or other heart defects may think they did something wrong during their pregnancies.
However, most of the time, doctors don't know why congenital heart defects occur.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells.
What is the treatment for hepatitis B?
Drugs approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B include alpha interferon and peginterferon, which slow the replication of the virus in the body and also boost the immune system, and the antiviral drugs lamivudine, adefovir dipivoxil, entecavir, and telbivudine.
Other drugs are also being evaluated.
Infants born to infected mothers should receive hepatitis B immune globulin and the hepatitis B vaccine within 12 hours of birth to help prevent infection.
Is there any treatment for Generalized Gangliosidoses?
No specific treatment exists for the gangliosidoses.
Anticonvulsants may initially control seizures.
Other supportive treatment includes proper nutrition and hydration and keeping the airway open.
What is Asperger Syndrome?
The most distinguishing symptom of AS is a child's obsessive interest in a single object or topic to the exclusion of any other.
Children with AS want to know everything about their topic of interest and their conversations with others will be about little else.
Their expertise, high level of vocabulary, and formal speech patterns make them seem like little professors.
Other characteristics of AS include repetitive routines or rituals; peculiarities in speech and language; socially and emotionally inappropriate behavior and the inability to interact successfully with peers; problems with non-verbal communication; and clumsy and uncoordinated motor movements.
What Causes an Arrhythmia?
A heart attack or other condition that damages the heart's electrical system also can cause arrhythmias.
Examples of such conditions include high blood pressure, coronary heart disease, heart failure, an overactive or underactive thyroid gland too much or too little thyroid hormone produced, and rheumatic heart disease.
Is there any treatment for Leukodystrophy?
Treatment for most of the leukodystrophies is symptomatic and supportive, and may include medications, physical, occupational, and speech therapies; and nutritional, educational, and recreational programs.
Bone marrow transplantation is showing promise for a few of the leukodystrophies.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Problem Sleepiness?
You may not notice how sleep deficiency affects your daily routine.
A common myth is that people can learn to get by on little sleep with no negative effects.
However, research shows that getting enough quality sleep at the right times is vital for mental health, physical health, quality of life, and safety.
What Causes Pernicious Anemia?
Pernicious anemia is caused by a lack of intrinsic factor or other causes, such as infections, surgery, medicines, or diet.
What is the prognosis for Syringomyelia?
Symptoms usually begin in young adulthood, with symptoms of one form usually beginning between the ages of 25 and 40.
Symptoms may worsen with straining or any activity that causes cerebrospinal fluid pressure to fluctuate.
Some patients, however, may have long periods of stability.
Surgery results in stabilization or modest improvement in symptoms for most patients.
Delay in treatment may result in irreversible spinal cord injury.
How Can We Accelerate Progress?
Expanding national media campaigns so that ads air more frequently and for longer periods of time 12 months a year for at least the next 10 years.
Is there any treatment for Essential Tremor?
There is no definitive cure for essential tremor.
Symptomatic drug therapy may include propranolol or other beta blockers and primidone, an anticonvulsant drug.
Eliminating tremor triggers such as caffeine and other stimulants from the diet is often recommended.
Physical and occupational therapy may help to reduce tremor and improve coordination and muscle control for some individuals.
Deep brain stimulation uses a surgically implanted, battery-operated medical device called a neurostimulator to delivery electrical stimulation to targeted areas of the brain that control movement, temporarily blocking the nerve signals that cause tremor.
Other surgical intervention is effective but may have side effects.
What is the prognosis for Troyer Syndrome?
Prognosis varies, although the disease is progressive.
Some patients may have a mild form of the disease while others eventually lose the ability to walk normally.
Troyer syndrome does not shorten the normal life span.
What is Creating the Kock pouch?
Creating the Kock pouch is a delicate surgical procedure that requires a healthy bowel for proper healing.
What is Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome Disorder?
AGS is difficult to diagnose since many of the symptoms are similar to those of other disorders.
Diagnosis is made based on the clinical symptoms of the disease, as well as characteristic brain abnormalities that can be seen in an MRI brain scan.
Cerebrospinal fluid CSF, taken using a spinal tap, can also be tested for increased levels of a specific immune system cell a lymphocyte, which indicates a condition known as chronic lymphocytosis.
These cells are normally only elevated during infection, so that lymphocytosis without evidence of infection can be used as an indicator of AGS.
CSF may also be tested for elevated levels of a substance known as interferon-gamma, which can also support a diagnosis of AGS.
What other types of vascular lesions affect the central nervous system?
Cavernous malformations.
These lesions are formed from groups of tightly packed, abnormally thin-walled, small blood vessels that displace normal neurological tissue in the brain or spinal cord.
The vessels are filled with slow-moving or stagnant blood that is usually clotted or in a state of decomposition.
Like AVMs, cavernous malformations can range in size from a few fractions of an inch to several inches in diameter, depending on the number of blood vessels involved.
Some people develop multiple lesions.
Although cavernous malformations usually do not hemorrhage as severely as AVMs do, they sometimes leak blood into surrounding neurological tissues because the walls of the involved blood vessels are extremely fragile.
Although they are often not as symptomatic as AVMs, cavernous malformations can cause seizures in some people.
After AVMs, cavernous malformations are the type of vascular lesion most likely to require treatment.
What Research Is Being Done on Osteogenesis Imperfecta?
No medications are approved to treat OI.
But, experts are trying to learn more about:
What is the prognosis for Postural Tachycardia Syndrome?
POTS may follow a relapsing-remitting course, in which symptoms come and go, for years.
In most cases approximately 80 percent, an individual with POTS improves and becomes functional, although some residual symptoms are common.
What Does Hip Replacement Surgery Involve?
Cemented parts are fastened to existing, healthy bone with a special glue or cement.
Hip replacement using these parts is referred to as a 'cemented' procedure.
Uncemented parts rely on a process called biologic fixation, which holds them in place.
This means that the parts are made with a porous surface that allows your own bone to grow into the pores and hold the new parts in place.
Sometimes a doctor will use a cemented femur part and uncemented acetabular part.
This combination is referred to as a hybrid replacement.
Was the '2009 H1N1' pandemic virus the same as previously circulating human H1N1 viruses?
No.
The 2009 H1N1 viruses were antigenically and genetically very different from previously circulating human H1N1 viruses and, therefore, vaccines for human seasonal flu available at that time did not provide protection against 2009 H1N1 viruses.
However, these 2009 H1N1 viruses are now commonly spread in people and the current seasonal flu vaccines do provide protection against these viruses.
What is a mammogram?
When you get mammograms, the nurse will place your breasts, one at a time, between 2 plastic plates and take pictures of them.
Mammograms can be uncomfortable for some women, but they don't hurt.
How Is Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation Diagnosed?
Acute DIC requires emergency treatment.
The condition can be life threatening if it's not treated right away.
If you have signs or symptoms of severe bleeding or blood clots, call 9 - 1 - 1 right away.
How Did I Get Paget's Disease?
Doctors are not sure what causes the disease.
Some people have hereditary Paget's disease, which means it runs in their family and was passed down by their parents.
But most people do not have any relatives with Paget's disease.
Doctors think a virus may cause Paget's disease in some cases.
They are studying different kinds of viruses to try to find ones that may cause the disease.
What causes PSC?
PSC is linked to inflammatory bowel disease IBD.
About three out of four people with PSC have a type of IBD called ulcerative colitis.
The link between PSC and IBD is not yet understood.
What is Spinal Muscular Atrophy?
Spinal Muscular Atrophy SMA Types I, II, and III belong to a group of hereditary diseases that cause weakness and wasting of the voluntary muscles in the arms and legs of infants and children.
The disorders are caused by an abnormal or missing gene known as the survival motor neuron gene 1 SMN1, which is responsible for the production of a protein essential to motor neurons.
Without this protein, lower motor neurons in the spinal cord degenerate and die.
The type of SMA I, II, or III is determined by the age of onset and the severity of symptoms.
Type I also known as Werdnig-Hoffman disease, or infantile-onset SMA is evident at birth or within the first few months.
Symptoms include floppy limbs and trunk, feeble movements of the arms and legs, swallowing and feeding difficulties, and impaired breathing.
Type II the intermediate form usually begins 6 and 18 months of age.
Legs tend to be more impaired than arms.
Children with Type II may able to sit and some may be able to stand or walk with help.
Symptoms of Type III also called Kugelberg-Welander disease appear between 2 and 17 years of age and include difficulty running, climbing steps, or rising from a chair.
The lower extremities are most often affected.
Complications include scoliosis and chronic shortening of muscles or tendons around joints.
How does the flu spread?
Flu viruses spread mainly from person to person through coughing or sneezing of people with influenza.
Sometimes people may become infected by touching something with flu viruses on it and then touching their mouth or nose.
Most healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 days after becoming sick.
That means that you may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick.
How Does a Ventilator Work?
Ventilators blow air - or air with extra oxygen - into the airways and then the lungs.
The airways are pipes that carry oxygen-rich air to your lungs.
They also carry carbon dioxide, a waste gas, out of your lungs.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
How are the mucopolysaccharidoses treated?
Surgery to remove tonsils and adenoids may improve breathing among affected individuals with obstructive airway disorders and sleep apnea.
Sleep studies can assess airway status and the possible need for nighttime oxygen.
Some patients may require surgical insertion of an endotrachial tube to aid breathing.
Surgery can also correct hernias, help drain excessive cerebrospinal fluid from the brain, and free nerves and nerve roots compressed by skeletal and other abnormalities.
Corneal transplants may improve vision among patients with significant corneal clouding.
How can people decrease mold exposure?
Sensitive individuals should avoid areas that are likely to have mold, such as compost piles, cut grass, and wooded areas.
Inside homes, mold growth can be slowed by controlling humidity levels and ventilating showers and cooking areas.
If there is mold growth in your home, you should clean up the mold and fix the water problem.
Mold growth can be removed from hard surfaces with commercial products, soap and water, or a bleach solution of no more than 1 cup of bleach in 1 gallon of water.
What are the characteristics of tremor?
A useful way to understand and describe tremors is to define them according to the following types.
Restingtremor occurs when the muscle is relaxed, such as when the hands are lying on the lap or hanging next to the trunk while standing or walking.
It may be seen as a shaking of the limb, even when the person is at rest.
Often, the tremor affects only the hand or fingers.
This type of tremor is often seen in patients with Parkinson's disease.
An action tremor occurs during any type of movement of an affected body part.
There are several subclassifications of action tremor.
Postural tremor occurs when the person maintains a position against gravity, such as holding the arms outstretched.
Kinetictremor appears during movement of a body part, such as moving the wrists up and down, while intention tremor is present during a purposeful movement toward a target, such as touching a finger to one's nose during a medical exam.
Task-specific tremor appears when performing highly skilled, goal-oriented tasks such as handwriting or speaking.
Isometric tremor occurs during a voluntary muscle contraction that is not accompanied by any movement.
What should you expect during Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting?
Coronary artery bypass grafting CABG requires a team of experts.
A cardiothoracic surgeon will do the surgery with support from an anesthesiologist, perfusionist heart-lung bypass machine specialist, other surgeons, and nurses.
What are autoimmune diseases?
The body's immune system normally makes large numbers of proteins called antibodies to help the body fight off infections.
In some cases, however, the body makes autoantibodies.
Certain environmental triggers can lead to autoimmunity.
Environmental triggers are things originating outside the body, such as bacteria, viruses, toxins, and medications.
How is head lice infestation diagnosed?
The diagnosis of a head lice infestation is best made by finding a live nymph or adult louse on the scalp or hair of a person.
Because nymphs and adult lice are very small, move quickly, and avoid light, they can be difficult to find.
Use of a magnifying lens and a fine-toothed comb may be helpful to find live lice.
If crawling lice are not seen, finding nits firmly attached within a inch of base of the hair shafts strongly suggests, but does not confirm, that a person is infested and should be treated.
Nits that are attached more than inch from the base of the hair shaft are almost always dead or already hatched.
Nits are often confused with other things found in the hair such as dandruff, hair spray droplets, and dirt particles.
If no live nymphs or adult lice are seen, and the only nits found are more than -inch from the scalp, the infestation is probably old and no longer active and does not need to be treated.
How do doctors treat the symptoms of MS?
MS causes a variety of symptoms that can interfere with daily activities but which can usually be treated or managed to reduce their impact.
Many of these issues are best treated by neurologists who have advanced training in the treatment of MS and who can prescribe specific medications to treat the problems.
What is Wallenberg's syndrome?
Wallenberg's syndrome is a neurological condition caused by a stroke in the vertebral or posterior inferior cerebellar artery of the brain stem.
How Is Heart Disease Treated?
Treatment for coronary heart disease CHD usually is the same for both women and men.
Treatment may include lifestyle changes, medicines, medical and surgical procedures, and cardiac rehabilitation rehab.
Is there any treatment for Cerebral Arteriosclerosis?
Treatment for cerebral arteriosclerosis can include medications or surgery.
Physicians also may recommend treatments to help people control high blood pressure, quit cigarette smoking, and reduce cholesterol levels, all of which are risk factors for cerebral arteriosclerosis.
Can the flu be treated?
Yes.
There are prescription medications called 'antiviral drugs' that can be used to treat influenza illness.
Is there any treatment for Schizencephaly?
Treatment generally consists of physical therapy and drugs to prevent seizures.
In cases that are complicated by hydrocephalus, a surgically implanted tube, called a shunt, is often used to divert fluid to another area of the body where it can be absorbed.
What is Behcet's disease?
Behcet's disease is a lifelong disorder that comes and goes.
What is Carboplatin?
Carboplatin is a cisplatin analog and is less nephrotoxic than cisplatin.
How Can Deep Vein Thrombosis Be Prevented?
Get out of bed and move around as soon as possible after surgery or illness as your doctor recommends.
Moving around lowers your chance of developing a blood clot.
What is the prognosis for Isaacs' Syndrome?
There is no cure for Isaacs' syndrome.
The long-term prognosis for individuals with the disorder is uncertain.
What are the complications of gastritis?
Most forms of chronic nonspecific gastritis do not cause symptoms.
However, chronic gastritis is a risk factor for peptic ulcer disease, gastric polyps, and benign and malignant gastric tumors.
Some people with chronic H.
pylori gastritis or autoimmune gastritis develop atrophic gastritis.
Atrophic gastritis destroys the cells in the stomach lining that produce digestive acids and enzymes.
Atrophic gastritis can lead to two types of cancer: gastric cancer and gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue MALT lymphoma.
How Can Atelectasis Be Prevented?
Perform deep breathing exercises.
These exercises are very important after surgery.
While in the hospital, you may use a device called an incentive spirometer.
This device measures how much air you're breathing in and how fast you're breathing in.
Using this device encourages you to breathe deeply and slowly.
How would you characterize the response efforts? What were the most difficult aspects to respond to?
Response efforts were generally effective, given resources available at the time.
Major challenges related to uncertainties regarding who was in charge at the national and local levels, dealing with the 24 hr news cycle, staying ahead of CNN in release of information, maintaining situational awareness worked best in NYC, keeping the clinical and public health communities informed, communicating clear and consistent messages, characterizing powder preparations associated with cases including concerns about indicators of weaponization, sharing information among many agencies involved in the investigation.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
What is Congenital NCL?
Congenital NCL is a very rare and severe form of NCL.
What do I ask the doctor?
It helps to write down questions for the doctor or nurse ahead of time.
Print out this list of questions and take it with you to your appointment.
You may want to ask a family member or close friend to go with you to take notes.
Do I Have Arthritis?
Pain is the way your body tells you that something is wrong.
Most types of arthritis cause pain in your joints.
You might have trouble moving around.
Some kinds of arthritis can affect different parts of your body.
So, along with pain in your joints, you may:
What is Adopting a child?
Adopting a child is a wonderful and exciting event for families.
What is chronic diarrhea?
Diarrhea is loose, watery stools.
Chronic, or long lasting, diarrhea typically lasts for more than 4 weeks.
Children with chronic diarrhea may have loose, watery stools continually, or diarrhea may come and go.
Chronic diarrhea may go away without treatment, or it may be a symptom of a chronic disease or disorder.
Treating the disease or disorder can relieve chronic diarrhea.
What do People With Inflammatory Bowel Disease Need to Know About Osteoporosi?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33578374.xml:
What is Therapeutic phlebotomy?
Therapeutic phlebotomy is a procedure that removes blood and iron from your body.
What causes Whipple disease?
Bacteria called Tropheryma whippleiT.
whipplei cause Whipple disease.
T.
whipplei infection can cause internal sores, also called lesions, and thickening of tissues in the small intestine.
The villi take on an abnormal, clublike appearance and the damaged intestinal lining does not properly absorb nutrients, causing diarrhea and malnutrition.
Diarrhea is frequent, loose, and watery bowel movements.
Malnutrition is a condition that develops when the body does not get the right amount of vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients it needs to maintain healthy tissues and organ function.
Over time, the infection spreads to other parts of the person's body and will damage other organs.
Is there any treatment for Complex Regional Pain Syndrome?
Because there is no cure for CRPS, treatment is aimed at relieving painful symptoms.
Doctors may prescribe topical analgesics, antidepressants, corticosteroids, and opioids to relieve pain.
However, no single drug or combination of drugs has produced consistent long-lasting improvement in symptoms.
Other treatments may include physical therapy, sympathetic nerve block, spinal cord stimulation, and intrathecal drug pumps to deliver opioids and local anesthetic agents via the spinal cord.
Q: How common is HPV?
A: HPV is very common.
In fact, it is the most common sexually-transmitted infection in the US.
HPV is so common that nearly all sexually-active men and women will get at least one type of HPV at some point in their lives.
Most people never know that they have been infected and may give HPV to a partner without knowing it.
About 79 million Americans are currently infected with HPV.
About 14 million people become newly infected each year.
What is Father's Day?
Father's Day is an occasion to celebrate the contribution that fathers and father figures make to children's lives.
What Research is Being Done?
Cutaneous allodynia is the feeling of pain or unpleasant sensations in response to normally nonpainful stimuli, such as light touch.
Researchers are investigating why it is present on the head or face in people with cluster headaches, to better understand neurological changes that occur with these headaches.
Similar research is looking at why some people with migraines have more than the typical restricted allodynia that affects a particular area of the head predicted by the headache for example, on the same side of the face as the migraine pain.
Individuals with extended allodynia may experience unpleasant sensations on the side of the face opposite the headache pain or even on their feet.
Previous studies have shown that sensitized nociceptors in the brain's coverings are involved in the throbbing pain of migraine and that other sensitized neurons found deeper in the brain are involved with restricted allodynia, but it is not certain which cells are responsible for extended allodynia.
Future studies will explore whether nerve cells in the thalamus which is involved in relaying signals between the brain and the body become more sensitive a result of the headache pain and cause extended allodynia.
Findings may offer a better understanding of how the nervous system changes and becomes more sensitive after repeated stimulation, resulting in chronic pain.
How does the doctor test for diverticular disease?
The doctor can test for diverticular disease many ways.
A CT scan is the most common test used.
The doctor will inject a liquid in a vein in your arm that better highlights your organs on x rays.
You may be asked to drink liquid called barium instead of getting an injection.
You are then placed in a large doughnut-shaped machine that takes x rays.
What research is being done for Opsoclonus Myoclonus?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on movement disorders such as opsoclonus myoclonus.
These studies are aimed at increasing knowledge about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
How Does Paget's Disease Cause Osteoarthritis?
Although they are different conditions, there is a link between Paget's disease and osteoarthritis.
The changes that occur in bones affected by Paget's disease can also affect the function of nearby joints.
As a result, people with Paget's disease frequently have osteoarthritis.
Paget's disease can cause osteoarthritis when it:
What is Cerebellar degeneration?
Cerebellar degeneration is a process in which neurons in the cerebellum - the area of the brain that controls coordination and balance - deteriorate and die.
What Is a Stent?
A stent is placed in an artery as part of a procedure called percutaneous per-ku-TA-ne-us coronary intervention PCI, sometimes referred to as coronary angioplasty AN-jee-oh-plas-tee.
PCI restores blood flow through narrow or blocked arteries.
A stent helps support the inner wall of the artery in the months or years after PCI.
How is gastroparesis diagnosed?
Upper GI series.
An upper GI series may be done to look at the small intestine.
The test is performed at a hospital or outpatient center by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist - a doctor who specializes in medical imaging.
Anesthesia is not needed.
No eating or drinking is allowed for 8 hours before the procedure, if possible.
If the person has diabetes, a health care provider may give different instructions about fasting before the test.
During the procedure, the person will stand or sit in front of an x-ray machine and drink barium, a chalky liquid.
Barium coats the small intestine, making signs of gastroparesis show up more clearly on x rays.
Gastroparesis is likely if the x ray shows food in the stomach after fasting.
A person may experience bloating and nausea for a short time after the test.
For several days afterward, barium liquid in the GI tract causes stools to be white or light colored.
A health care provider will give the person specific instructions about eating and drinking after the test.
What research is being done for Arachnoiditis?
Within the NINDS research programs, arachnoiditis is addressed primarily through studies associated with pain research.
NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for pain and nerve damage with the ultimate goal of reversing debilitating conditions such as arachnoiditis.
What is Persistent AF?
Persistent AF is a condition in which the abnormal heart rhythm continues for more than a week.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Carotid Artery Disease?
Carotid artery disease may not cause signs or symptoms until it severely narrows or blocks a carotid artery.
Signs and symptoms may include a bruit broo-E, a transient ischemic attack TIA, or a stroke.
What is Encephalitis Lethargica?
Encephalitis lethargica is a disease characterized by high fever, headache, double vision, delayed physical and mental response, and lethargy.
In acute cases, patients may enter coma.
Patients may also experience abnormal eye movements, upper body weakness, muscular pains, tremors, neck rigidity, and behavioral changes including psychosis.
The cause of encephalitis lethargica is unknown.
Between 1917 to 1928, an epidemic of encephalitis lethargica spread throughout the world, but no recurrence of the epidemic has since been reported.
Postencephalitic Parkinson's disease may develop after a bout of encephalitis-sometimes as long as a year after the illness.
How Can Excessive Blood Clotting Be Prevented?
Your doctor may prescribe anticoagulants, or blood thinners, before, during, and/or after surgery or medical procedures to prevent excessive blood clotting.
What Is a Stroke?
If brain cells die or are damaged because of a stroke, symptoms occur in the parts of the body that these brain cells control.
Examples of stroke symptoms include sudden weakness; paralysis or numbness of the face, arms, or legs paralysis is an inability to move; trouble speaking or understanding speech; and trouble seeing.
What research is being done for Neuromyelitis Optica?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to NMO in laboratories at the NIH and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure rare neurological syndromes such as NMO.
What is An ambulance?
An ambulance is the best and safest way to get to the hospital.
What Is an Arrhythmia?
Most arrhythmias are harmless, but some can be serious or even life threatening.
During an arrhythmia, the heart may not be able to pump enough blood to the body.
Lack of blood flow can damage the brain, heart, and other organs.
What Are the Risks of Heart Surgery?
In general, the risk of complications is higher if heart surgery is done in an emergency situation for example, during a heart attack.
The risk also is higher if you have other diseases or conditions, such as diabetes, kidney disease, lung disease, or peripheral arterial disease P.A.D..
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What is Cutting back on portion size?
Cutting back on portion size is a good way to eat fewer calories and balance your energy IN.
What is liver transplantation?
Liver transplantation is surgery to remove a diseased or injured liver and replace it with a healthy whole liver or a segment of a liver from another person, called a donor.
A successful liver transplant is a life-saving treatment for people with liver failure, a condition in which the liver no longer works as it should.
What research is being done for Chronic?
The NINDS supports a broad program of research on disorders of the nervous system, including CIDP.
Much of this research is aimed at increasing the understanding of these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
What is the abdominal cavity?
The abdominal cavity is the internal area of the body between the chest and hips that contains the lower part of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine.
The esophagus carries food and liquids from the mouth to the stomach, which slowly pumps them into the small and large intestines.
Abdominal adhesions can kink, twist, or pull the small and large intestines out of place, causing an intestinal obstruction.
Intestinal obstruction, also called a bowel obstruction, results in the partial or complete blockage of movement of food or stool through the intestines.
Is there any treatment for Encephaloceles?
Generally, surgery is performed during infancy to place the protruding tissues back into the skull, remove the sac, and correct the associated craniofacial abnormalities.
Even large protrusions can often be removed without causing major functional disability.
Hydrocephalus associated with encephaloceles may require surgical treatment with a shunt.
Other treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
What are the symptoms of a Chiari malformation?
Individuals with CM may complain of neck pain, balance problems, muscle weakness, numbness or other abnormal feelings in the arms or legs, dizziness, vision problems, difficulty swallowing, ringing or buzzing in the ears, hearing loss, vomiting, insomnia, depression, or headache made worse by coughing or straining.
Hand coordination and fine motor skills may be affected.
Symptoms may change for some individuals, depending on the buildup of CSF and resulting pressure on the tissues and nerves.
Persons with a Type I CM may not have symptoms.
Adolescents and adults who have CM but no symptoms initially may, later in life, develop signs of the disorder.
Infants may have symptoms from any type of CM and may have difficulty swallowing, irritability when being fed, excessive drooling, a weak cry, gagging or vomiting, arm weakness, a stiff neck, breathing problems, developmental delays, and an inability to gain weight.
What is the GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
The movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, allows for the digestion of food.
Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine - which includes the appendix, cecum, colon, and rectum - and anus.
The intestines are sometimes called the bowel.
The last part of the GI tract - called the lower GI tract - consists of the large intestine and anus.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
What is Ethmocephaly?
Ethmocephaly is the least common facial anomaly.
Can PPS be prevented?
Polio survivors often ask if there is a way to prevent the development of PPS.
Presently, no intervention has been found to stop the deterioration of surviving neurons.
Physicians recommend that polio survivors get a good night's sleep, maintain a well-balanced diet, avoid unhealthy habits such as smoking and overeating, and follow a prescribed exercise program.
Lifestyle changes, such as weight control, the use of assistive devices, and taking certain anti-inflammatory medications, may help with some of the symptoms of PPS.
Is there any treatment for Stroke?
Generally there are three treatment stages for stroke: prevention, therapy immediately after the stroke, and post-stroke rehabilitation.
Therapies to prevent a first or recurrent stroke are based on treating an individual's underlying risk factors for stroke, such as hypertension, atrial fibrillation, and diabetes.
Acute stroke therapies try to stop a stroke while it is happening by quickly dissolving the blood clot causing an ischemic stroke or by stopping the bleeding of a hemorrhagic stroke.
Post-stroke rehabilitation helps individuals overcome disabilities that result from stroke damage.
Medication or drug therapy is the most common treatment for stroke.
The most popular classes of drugs used to prevent or treat stroke are antithrombotics antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants and thrombolytics.
How is it treated?
The fainting and lightheadedness from orthostatic hypotension is often treated successfully with simple interventions such as adding extra salt to the diet and avoiding heavy meals and alcohol.
Some people with MSA sleep with the head of the bed tilted up or use a compression body stocking.
The drugs fludrocortisone for those on a high salt diet and midodrine are sometimes prescribed to increase blood volume and narrow blood vessels.
Drinking a glass or two of water before getting out of bed in the morning can also help raise blood pressure.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a real risk for older Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
What should you expect during Carotid Ultrasound?
Your technician or doctor will put the transducer against different spots on your neck and move it back and forth.
The transducer gives off ultrasound waves and detects their echoes as they bounce off the artery walls and blood cells.
Ultrasound waves can't be heard by the human ear.
What is Myasthenia Gravis?
Myasthenia gravis is a chronic autoimmune neuromuscular disease characterized by varying degrees of weakness of the skeletal voluntary muscles of the body.
Symptoms vary in type and intensity.
The hallmark of myasthenia gravis is muscle weakness that increases during periods of activity and improves after periods of rest.
Muscles that control eye and eyelid movements, facial expression, chewing, talking, and swallowing are often, but not always, involved.
The muscles that control breathing and neck and limb movements may also be affected.
Myasthenia gravis is caused by a defect in the transmission of nerve impulses to muscles.
Normally when impulses travel down the nerve, the nerve endings release a neurotransmitter substance called acetylcholine.
In myasthenia gravis, antibodies produced by the body's own immune system block, alter, or destroy the receptors for acetylcholine.
The first noticeable symptoms of myasthenia gravis may be weakness of the eye muscles, difficulty in swallowing, or slurred speech.
Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease because the immune system--which normally protects the body from foreign organisms--mistakenly attacks itself.
It is not directly inherited nor is it contagious.
What is Rett syndrome?
Rett syndrome is a neurodevelopmenal disorder that affects girls almost exclusively.
What is Bladder cancer?
Bladder cancer is the sixth most common cancer in the United States after lung cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer, colon cancer, and lymphoma.
What Causes Metabolic Syndrome?
People who have metabolic syndrome often have two other conditions: excessive blood clotting and constant, low-grade inflammation throughout the body.
Researchers don't know whether these conditions cause metabolic syndrome or worsen it.
Is there any treatment for Agenesis of the Corpus Callosum?
There is no standard course of treatment for ACC.
Treatment usually involves management of symptoms and seizures if they occur.
What is Zollinger-Ellison syndrome?
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is a rare disorder that occurs when one or more tumors form in the pancreas and duodenum.
The tumors, called gastrinomas, release large amounts of gastrin that cause the stomach to produce large amounts of acid.
Normally, the body releases small amounts of gastrin after eating, which triggers the stomach to make gastric acid that helps break down food and liquid in the stomach.
The extra acid causes peptic ulcers to form in the duodenum and elsewhere in the upper intestine.
What is Radiosurgery?
Radiosurgery is an even less invasive therapeutic approach
What Are Blood Tests?
Blood tests help doctors check for certain diseases and conditions.
They also help check the function of your organs and show how well treatments are working.
What is Hepatitis A?
Hepatitis A is a virus that can spread through food or water contaminated with fecal matter, even in microscopic amounts.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome?
You also may have rapid, shallow breathing.
During a physical exam, your doctor might hear abnormal heart sounds while listening to your heart with a stethoscope.
He or she also might notice that the opening to your throat is small and your neck is larger than normal.
What should you do if you are concerned?
In most cases, ADHD is best treated with a combination of medication and behavior therapy.
According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, treatment recommendations differ by age.
Younger children might benefit most from behavior treatment; older children may benefit more from medication.
Good treatment plans will include close monitoring, follow-ups and any changes needed along the way.
You can read about treatment recommendations here.
How do I prevent zoonotic diseases?
Closely supervise children to ensure they wash their hands properly and avoid hand - to - mouth activities thumb - sucking, eating, and use of pacifiers after animal contact.
What causes GERD in children and adolescents?
Children who have a history of esophageal surgery and children with severe developmental delays are more likely to develop GERD.
Pregnant adolescent girls may also develop GERD symptoms.
Any child or adolescent can develop GERD, some for unknown reasons.
What is Imatinib mesylate?
Imatinib mesylate is a medicine that's approved for treating leukemia.
How Are Knee Problems Diagnosed?
Doctors diagnose knee problems based on the findings of a medical history, physical exam, and diagnostic tests.
What is Malnutrition?
Malnutrition is a condition that occurs when the body does not get enough nutrients.
What are some of the other ways to measure obesity? Why doesn't CDC use those to determine overweight and obesity among the general public?
Other methods to measure body fatness include skinfold thickness measurements with calipers, underwater weighing, bioelectrical impedance, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry DXA, and isotope dilution.
However, these methods are not always readily available, and they are either expensive or need highly trained personnel.
Furthermore, many of these methods can be difficult to standardize across observers or machines, complicating comparisons across studies and time periods.
Is thimerosal in vaccines safe?
Three U.S.
health agencies The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, the Food and Drug Administration FDA, and the National Institutes of Health NIH have reviewed the published research on thimerosal and found it to be a safe product to use in vaccines.
Three independent organizations [The National Academy of Sciences' Institute of Medicine, Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ACIP, and the American Academy of Pediatrics AAP] reviewed the published research and also found thimerosal to be a safe product to use in vaccines.
The medical community supports the use of thimerosal in influenza vaccines to protect against potential bacterial contamination of multi-dose vials.
Is there any treatment for Chronic?
Treatment for CIDP includes corticosteroids such as prednisone, which may be prescribed alone or in combination with immunosuppressant drugs.
Plasmapheresis plasma exchange and intravenous immunoglobulin IVIg therapy are effective.
IVIg may be used even as a first-line therapy.
Physiotherapy may improve muscle strength, function and mobility, and minimize the shrinkage of muscles and tendons and distortions of the joints.
What is the prognosis for Friedreich's Ataxia?
Generally, within 15 to 20 years after the appearance of the first symptoms, the person is confined to a wheelchair, and in later stages of the disease, individuals become completely incapacitated.
Most people with Friedreich's ataxia die in early adulthood if there is significant heart disease, the most common cause of death.
Some people with less severe symptoms live much longer.
What research is being done for Lesch-Nyhan Syndrome?
The gene associated with LNS is known.
The NINDS supports and conducts research on genetic disorders such as LNS in an effort to find ways to prevent and treat these disorders.
What is the prognosis for Transverse?
Recovery from transverse myelitis usually begins within 2 to 12 weeks of the onset of symptoms and may continue for up to 2 years and in some cases longer.
However, if there is no improvement within the first 3 to 6 months, complete recovery is unlikely although incomplete recovery can still occur, which underlines the significant need for aggressive physical therapy and rehabilitation.
Historic data, not controlling for more aggressive therapy, shows about one-third of people affected with transverse myelitis experience good or full recovery from their symptoms; they regain the ability to walk normally and experience minimal urinary or bowel effects and paresthesias.
Another one-third experience only fair recovery and are left with significant deficits such as spastic gait, sensory dysfunction, and prominent urinary urgency or incontinence.
The remaining one-third experience no recovery at all, remaining wheelchair-bound or bedridden with marked dependence on others for basic functions of daily living.
Unfortunately, making predictions about individual cases is difficult.
Aggressive acute treatment and physical therapy have been shown to improve outcomes.
However, research has shown that a rapid onset of symptoms generally results in poorer recovery outcomes.
What is A grade I meningioma?
A grade I meningioma is a slow-growing tumor.
What is Neuronal Migration Disorders?
Neuronal migration disorders NMDs are a group of birth defects caused by the abnormal migration of neurons in the developing brain and nervous system.
In the developing brain, neurons must migrate from the areas where they are born to the areas where they will settle into their proper neural circuits.
Neuronal migration, which occurs as early as the second month of gestation, is controlled by a complex assortment of chemical guides and signals.
When these signals are absent or incorrect, neurons do not end up where they belong.
This can result in structurally abnormal or missing areas of the brain in the cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, or hippocampus.
The structural abnormalities found in NMDs include schizencephaly, porencephaly, lissencephaly, agyria, macrogyria, polymicrogyria, pachygyria, microgyria, micropolygyria, neuronal heterotopias including band heterotopia, agenesis of the corpus callosum, and agenesis of the cranial nerves.
Symptoms vary according to the abnormality, but often feature poor muscle tone and motor function, seizures, developmental delays, mental retardation, failure to grow and thrive, difficulties with feeding, swelling in the extremities, and a smaller than normal head.
Most infants with an NMD appear normal, but some disorders have characteristic facial or skull features that can be recognized by a neurologist.
Several genetic abnormalities in children with NMDs have been identified.
Defects in genes that are involved in neuronal migration have been associated with NMDs, but the role they play in the development of these disorders is not yet well-understood.
More than 25 syndromes resulting from abnormal neuronal migration have been described.
Among them are syndromes with several different patterns of inheritance; genetic counseling thus differs greatly between syndromes.
Is there any treatment for Tethered Spinal Cord Syndrome?
MRI imaging is often used to evaluate individuals with these symptoms, and can be used to diagnose the location of the tethering, lower than normal position of the conus medullaris, or presence of a tumor or fatty mass lipoma.
In children, early surgery is recommended to prevent further neurological deterioration.
Regular follow-up is important: retethering may occur in some individuals during periods of rapid growth and may be seen between five to nine years of age.
If surgery is not advisable, spinal cord nerve roots may be cut to relieve pain.
In adults, surgery to free detether the spinal cord can reduce the size and further development of cysts in the cord and may restore some function or alleviate other symptoms.
Other treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
What is the prognosis for Giant Axonal Neuropathy?
GAN generally progresses slowly as neurons degenerate and die.
Most children have problems with walking in the early stages of the disorder.
Later they may lose sensation, coordination, strength, and reflexes in their arms and legs.
As time goes on, the brain and spinal cord may become involved, causing a gradual decline in mental function, loss of control of body movement, and seizures.
Most children become wheelchair dependent in the second decade of life.
Some children may survive into early adulthood.
How Can COPD Be Prevented?
You can take steps to prevent COPD before it starts.
If you already have COPD, you can take steps to prevent complications and slow the progress of the disease.
How Can Childhood Interstitial Lung Disease Be Prevented?
At this time, most types of childhood interstitial lung disease chILD can't be prevented.
People who have a family history of inherited genetic interstitial lung disease may want to consider genetic counseling.
A counselor can explain the risk of children inheriting chILD.
What research is being done for Guillain-Barre Syndrome?
Scientists are concentrating on finding new treatments and refining existing ones.
Scientists are also looking at the workings of the immune system to find which cells are responsible for beginning and carrying out the attack on the nervous system.
The fact that so many cases of Guillain-Barre begin after a viral or bacterial infection suggests that certain characteristics of some viruses and bacteria may activate the immune system inappropriately.
Investigators are searching for those characteristics.
Neurological scientists, immunologists, virologists, and pharmacologists are all working collaboratively to learn how to prevent this disorder and to make better therapies available when it strikes.
How does smoking affect heartburn and GERD?
Smoking increases the risk of heartburn and GERD.
Heartburn is a painful, burning feeling in the chest caused by reflux, or stomach contents flowing back into the esophagus - the organ that connects the mouth to the stomach.
Smoking weakens the lower esophageal sphincter, the muscle between the esophagus and stomach that keeps stomach contents from flowing back into the esophagus.
The stomach is naturally protected from the acids it makes to help break down food.
However, the esophagus is not protected from the acids.
When the lower esophageal sphincter weakens, stomach contents may reflux into the esophagus, causing heartburn and possibly damaging the lining of the esophagus.
How is transverse myelitis diagnosed?
Physicians diagnose transverse myelitis by taking a medical history and performing a thorough neurological examination.
Because it is often difficult to distinguish between a patient with an idiopathic form of transverse myelitis and one who has an underlying condition, physicians must first eliminate potentially treatable causes of the condition.
when a spinal cord problem is suspected, physicians seek first to rule out structurallesions damaged or abnormally functioning areas that could cause spinal cord compression or otherwise affects its function.
Such potential lesions include tumors, herniated or slipped discs, stenosis narrowing of the canal that holds the spinal cord, abscesses, and abnormal collections of blood vessels.
To rule out such lesions and check for inflammation of the spinal cord, patients often undergo magnetic resonance imaging MRI, a procedure that provides a picture of the brain and spinal cord.
The spinal cord MRI will almost always confirm the presence of a lesion within the spinal cord, whereas the brain MRI may provide clues to other underlying causes, especially MS.
If an MRI is not possible for example, if the patient has a pacemaker, physicians may consider other diagnostic tests such as computed tomography CT of the spine with or without myelography, which involves injecting a dye into the sac that surrounds the spinal cord.
The patient is then tilted up and down to let the dye flow around and outline the spinal cord while X-rays are taken.
What research is being done for Agenesis of the Corpus Callosum?
The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development.
The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies helps researchers understand how the process can go awry and provides opportunities for more effectively treating, and perhaps even preventing, developmental brain disorders such as ACC.
Where can Bone marrow be located?
Bone marrow is found in the center of most bones and has many blood vessels.
What is intussusception?
Intussusception is a condition in which one section of either the large or small intestine folds into itself, much like a collapsible telescope.
The condition can cause obstruction and cut off blood flow to the affected part of the intestine - a life-threatening event and a medical emergency.
How Is Long QT Syndrome Treated?
Treatment isn't a cure for the disorder and may not restore a normal QT interval on an EKG electrocardiogram.
However, treatment greatly improves the chances of survival.
What is Cirrhosis?
Cirrhosis is the 12th leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for nearly 32,000 deaths each year.
What causes vascular lesions?
By studying patterns of familial occurrence, researchers have established that one type of cavernous malformation involving multiple lesion formation is caused by a genetic mutation in chromosome 7.
This genetic mutation appears in many ethnic groups, but it is especially frequent in a large population of Hispanic Americans living in the Southwest; these individuals share a common ancestor in whom the genetic change occurred.
Some other types of vascular defects of the central nervous system are part of larger medical syndromes known to be hereditary.
They include hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia also known as Osler-Weber-Rendu disease, Sturge-Weber syndrome, Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome, Parkes-Weber syndrome, and Wyburn-Mason syndrome.
What is Powassan encephalitis?
Powassan encephalitis is the only well-documented tick-borne arbovirus in the United States and Canada.
What is Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome?
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome LEMS is a disorder of the neuromuscular junction-the site where nerve cells meet muscle cells and help activate the muscles.
It is caused by a disruption of electrical impulses between these nerve and muscle cells.
LEMS is an autoimmune condition; in such disorders the immune system, which normally protects the body from foreign organisms, mistakenly attacks the body's own tissues.
The disruption of electrical impulses is associated with antibodies produced as a consequence of this autoimmunity.
Symptoms include muscle weakness, a tingling sensation in the affected areas, fatigue, and dry mouth.
LEMS is closely associated with cancer, in particular small cell lung cancer.
More than half the individuals diagnosed with LEMS also develop small cell lung cancer.
LEMS may appear up to 3 years before cancer is diagnosed.
What Causes Hypotension?
Conditions or factors that disrupt the body's ability to control blood pressure cause hypotension.
The different types of hypotension have different causes.
My 8-Year-Old Son Is a Daredevil and Has Already Broken Several Bones.
Could He Have a Problem Like Osteoporosis at This Young Age?
Osteoporosis is rare among children and adolescents.
When it occurs, it is usually caused by an underlying medical disorder or by medications used to treat such disorders.
This is called secondary osteoporosis.
It may also be the result of a genetic disorder such as osteogenesis imperfecta, in which bones break easily from little or no apparent cause.
Sometimes there is no identifiable cause of juvenile osteoporosis.
This is known as idiopathic juvenile osteoporosis.
Two or more low-impact fractures may be a sign of one of these disorders.
What are the rectum and sigmoid colon?
The rectum and sigmoid colon are parts of the gastrointestinal GI tract, a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus - the 1-inch opening through which stool leaves the body.
Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, and anus.
The last part of the GI tract - called the lower GI tract - consists of the large intestine and anus.
How are the IRAT's 10 evaluation criteria ranked and weighted?
Each of the 10 evaluation criteria also are weighted according to importance to each of the two scenarios: emergence and public health impact.
As an example, when assessing an influenza virus for 'emergence,' the evaluation criteria may be ranked and weighted as follows with the first criterion receiving the highest rank and weight score, and the last criterion receiving the lowest rank and weight score.
What should you expect after Carotid Ultrasound?
You usually can return to your normal activities as soon as the carotid ultrasound is over.
Your doctor will likely be able to tell you the results of the carotid ultrasound when it occurs or soon afterward.
How Can You Tell if You Have Asthma?
During a checkup, the doctor will ask if you cough a lot, especially at night, and whether your breathing problems are worse after physical activity or at certain times of year.
The doctor will also ask about chest tightness, wheezing, and colds lasting more than 10 days.
They will ask whether anyone in your family has or has had asthma, allergies, or other breathing problems, and they will ask questions about your home.
The doctor will also ask if you have missed school or work and about any trouble you may have doing certain things.
CanH.
pylori infection be prevented?
No one knows for sure how H.
pylori spreads, so prevention is difficult.
Researchers are trying to develop a vaccine to prevent - and even cure - H.
pylori infection.
To help prevent infection, doctors advise people to.
How Are Growth Plate Injuries Treated?
Treatment for growth plate injuries depends on the type of injury.
In all cases, treatment should be started as soon as possible after injury and will generally involve a mix of the following:
What causes peptic ulcers?
H.
pylori is the most common cause of peptic ulcers.
Doctors think H.
pylori may be spread through unclean food or water or by mouth-to-mouth contact, such as kissing.
Even though many people have an H.
pylori infection, most of them never develop an ulcer.
What Is Carotid Endarterectomy?
Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood.
Over time, plaque hardens and narrows the carotid arteries.
This limits or blocks the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your brain, which can lead to a stroke.
What is Deep brain stimulation DBS?
Deep brain stimulation DBS is a surgical procedure used to treat several disabling neurological symptoms - most commonly the debilitating motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease PD, such as tremor, rigidity, stiffness, slowed movement, and walking problems.
What are anatomic problems of the lower gastrointestinal GI tract?
The large intestine is about 5 feet long in adults and absorbs water and any remaining nutrients from partially digested food passed from the small intestine.
The large intestine then changes waste from liquid to a solid matter called stool.
Stool passes from the colon to the rectum.
The rectum is 6 to 8 inches long in adults and is located between the last part of the colon - called the sigmoid colon - and the anus.
The rectum stores stool prior to a bowel movement.
During a bowel movement, the muscles of the rectal wall contract to move stool from the rectum to the anus, a 1-inch-long opening through which stool leaves the body.
What is Quitting smoking?
Quitting smoking is the most important thing you can do to lower your risk for AAA.
What Is Connective Tissue and What Does Heritable Disorders Mean?
Connective tissue is the material between the cells of the body that gives tissues form and strength.
This 'cellular glue' is also involved in delivering nutrients to the tissue, and in the special functioning of certain tissues.
Connective tissue is made up of dozens of proteins, including collagens, proteoglycans, and glycoproteins.
The combination of these proteins can vary between tissues.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What is Prenatal alcohol exposure?
Prenatal alcohol exposure is a challenging issue both in the United States and other countries around the world.
What is Kyphoplasty?
Kyphoplasty is a twostep process.
What should you expect after Using a Holter or Event Monitor?
If you were using an implantable loop recorder, your doctor will need to remove it from your chest.
He or she will discuss the procedure with you.
Who is more likely to develop Wilson disease?
A person's risk of being a carrier or having Wilson disease increases when his or her family has a known history of Wilson disease.
Some people may not know about a family history of the condition because the mutation is often passed to a child by a parent who is a carrier.
A person's chances of having Wilson disease increase if a health care provider has diagnosed one or both parents with the condition.
What should you expect before Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting?
Your doctor will tell you how to prepare for CABG surgery.
He or she will advise you about what you can eat or drink, which medicines to take, and which activities to stop such as smoking.
You'll likely be admitted to the hospital on the same day as the surgery.
What is A food allergy?
A food allergy is a reaction by the immune system, the body's natural defense system, to one or more proteins in certain foods.
What is Acute diarrhea caused by?
Acute diarrhea is usually caused by a bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection.
What Does a Lung Ventilation/Perfusion Scan Show?
The results of the scan show whether you're at high, medium, or low risk for a PE.
However, a VQ scan alone won't confirm whether you have a PE.
A scan showing low blood flow in spots may reflect other lung problems, such as lung damage from COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
What is Developmental screening?
Developmental screening is a short test to tell if children are learning basic skills when they should, or if they might have delays.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Heart Disease?
The signs and symptoms of coronary heart disease CHD may differ between women and men.
Some women who have CHD have no signs or symptoms.
This is called silent CHD.
What Are the Symptoms?
The most common symptoms of the disorder are painful, misshapen, and/or broken bones fractures.
Fractures are more common between the ages of 6 and 10, but often persist into adulthood.
The problems a person experiences depend on which bones are affected.
For example, the legs can be of different lengths, leading to a limp and the need for a shoe lift.
The bones of the sinuses can be affected, leading to chronic sinus congestion.
Only very rarely do serious problems such as vision loss or cancer occur.
Is there any treatment for Paraneoplastic Syndromes?
When present, the tumor and cancer are treated first, followed by efforts to decrease the autoimmune response -- either through steroids such as cortisone or prednisone, high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin, or irradiation.
Plasmapheresis, a process that cleanses antibodies from the blood, may ease symptoms in people with paraneoplastic disorders that affect the peripheral nervous system.
Speech and physical therapy may help individuals regain some functions.
What is PSTT PSTT disease?
PSTT PSTT disease is the result of a very rare tumor arising from the placental implantation site and resembles an exaggerated form of syncytial endometritis.
How does smoking affect Crohn's disease?
Crohn's disease is an inflammatory bowel disease that causes irritation in the GI tract.
The disease, which typically causes pain and diarrhea, most often affects the lower part of the small intestine; however, it can occur anywhere in the GI tract.
The severity of symptoms varies from person to person, and the symptoms come and go.
Crohn's disease may lead to complications such as blockages of the intestine and ulcers that tunnel through the affected area into surrounding tissues.
Medications may control symptoms.
However, many people with Crohn's disease require surgery to remove the affected portion of the intestine.
What is the prognosis for Coma?
The outcome for coma and persistent vegetative state depends on the cause, severity, and site of neurological damage.
Individuals may emerge from coma with a combination of physical, intellectual, and psychological difficulties that need special attention.
Recovery usually occurs gradually, with some acquiring more and more ability to respond.
Some individuals never progress beyond very basic responses, but many recover full awareness.
Individuals recovering from coma require close medical supervision.
A coma rarely lasts more than 2 to 4 weeks.
Some patients may regain a degree of awareness after persistent vegetative state.
Others may remain in that state for years or even decades.
The most common cause of death for someone in a persistent vegetative state is infection, such as pneumonia.
What Is Diabetes?
Diabetes is a disease in which the body's blood glucose sugar level is too high.
Normally, the body breaks down food into glucose and carries it to cells throughout the body.
The cells use a hormone called insulin to turn the glucose into energy.
What is Your weight?
Your weight is the result of a balance between energy IN and energy OUT.
What research is being done for Brain and Spinal Tumors?
Scientists continue to investigate ways to better understand, diagnose, and treat CNS tumors.
Experimental treatment options may include new drugs, gene therapy, surgery , radiation, biologic immuno-agents that enhance the body's overall immune system to recognize and fight cancer cells, and a combination of therapies.
Of particular interest to scientists is the development of tailored therapeutics--involving a combination of targeted agents that use different molecules to reduce tumor gene activity and suppress uncontrolled growth by killing or reducing the production of tumor cells--to treat tumors based on their genetic makeup.
Researchers continue to search for additional clinical biomarkers molecules or other substances in the blood or tissue that can be used to diagnose or monitor a particular disorder of CNS tumors.
Other researchers are testing different drugs and molecules to see if they can modulate the normal activity of the blood-brain barrier and better target tumor cells and associated blood vessels.
Also under investigation are ways to help the body respond to improved drug delivery or other cancer treatments.
What is Arachnoiditis?
Arachnoiditis is a disorder that causes chronic pain and neurological deficits and does not improve significantly with treatment.
How Can an Aneurysm Be Prevented?
Another important lifestyle change is following a healthy diet.
A healthy diet includes a variety of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
It also includes lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, and fat-free or low-fat milk or milk products.
A healthy diet is low in saturated fat, trans fat, cholesterol, sodium salt, and added sugar.
What is the prognosis for Attention Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder?
There is no cure for ADHD.
Children with the disorder seldom outgrow it; however, some may find adaptive ways to accommodate the ADHD as they mature.
How Is Iron-Deficiency Anemia Treated?
Severe iron-deficiency anemia may require a blood transfusion, iron injections, or intravenous IV iron therapy.
Treatment may need to be done in a hospital.
How are these disorders transmitted?
Some forms of bacterial meningitis and encephalitis are contagious and can be spread through contact with saliva, nasal discharge, feces, or respiratory and throat secretions often spread through kissing, coughing, or sharing drinking glasses, eating utensils, or such personal items as toothbrushes, lipstick, or cigarettes.
For example, people sharing a household, at a day care center, or in a classroom with an infected person can become infected.
College students living in dormitories - in particular, college freshmen - have a higher risk of contracting meningococcal meningitis than college students overall.
Children who do not have access to childhood vaccines are at increased risk of developing certain types of bacterial meningitis.
How Is Paget's Disease Treated?
People with Paget's disease do not need a special diet.
But, to maintain strong bones, you should get 1,200 mg of calcium and at least 400 IU of vitamin D every day.
After age 70, you should take 600 IU of vitamin D each day.
If you have had kidney stones, talk with your doctor about how much calcium and vitamin D to take.
What if the cirrhosis treatment doesn't work?
If too much scar tissue forms, your liver could fail.
Then you will need a liver transplant.
A liver transplant can return you to good health.
For information about liver transplantation, see the booklet What I need to know about Liver Transplantation from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases NIDDK.
What research is being done for Dyslexia?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH support dyslexia research through grants to major research institutions across the country.
Current research avenues focus on developing techniques to diagnose and treat dyslexia and other learning disabilities, increasing the understanding of the biological and possible genetic bases of learning disabilities, and exploring the relationship between neurophysiological processes and cognitive functions with regard to reading ability.
What is Actinic keratosis?
Actinic keratosis is a noninvasive lesion.
What is Balamuthia?
Balamuthia is a free-living ameba found in the environment.
When and how should I check my blood pressure readings?
Check your blood pressure readings on a regular basis, even if you feel fine.
Generally, people with high blood pressure have no symptoms.
You can check your blood pressure readings at home, at a pharmacy, and at a doctor's office.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of TBI?
Symptoms of a TBI can be mild, moderate, or severe, depending on the extent of the damage to the brain.
Some symptoms are evident immediately, while others do not surface until several days or weeks after the injury.
A person with a mild TBI may remain conscious or may experience a loss of consciousness for a few seconds or minutes.
The person may also feel dazed or not like himself for several days or weeks after the initial injury.
Other symptoms of mild TBI include headache, confusion, lightheadedness, dizziness, blurred vision or tired eyes, ringing in the ears, bad taste in the mouth, fatigue or lethargy, a change in sleep patterns, behavioral or mood changes, and trouble with memory, concentration, attention, or thinking.
How can I prepare for a flu pandemic?
It's also a good idea to prepare for a flu pandemic like you would prepare for any emergency where you might need to stay home for 1 to 2 weeks.
Will quitting make me gain weight?
Some people worry about gaining weight when they quit smoking.
The average weight gain after quitting smoking is small - about 6 to 10 pounds.
What Community Resources are Available?
Finding the proper facility can itself prove difficult.
Organizations such as the Huntington's Disease Society of America see listing on the Information Resources card in the back pocket of this brochure may be able to refer the family to facilities that have met standards set for the care of individuals with HD.
Very few of these exist however, and even fewer have experience with individuals with juvenile or early-onset HD who require special care because of their age and symptoms.
How Is Hib Disease Spread?
Hib bacteria spread through contact with mucus or droplets from the nose and throat of an infected person, often by coughing or sneezing.
However, Hib bacteria are more commonly spread by people who have the bacteria in their noses and throats but who are not ill have no symptoms of being sick.
What research is being done for Spinal Cord Infarction?
NINDS conducts and supports research on disorders of the spinal cord such as spinal cord infarction, aimed at learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.
Can HFMD Be Prevented?
There is no vaccine to protect against HFMD.
However, you can reduce the risk of getting infected with the viruses that cause HFMD by following a few simple steps:
What is Zollinger-Ellison syndrome?
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is a rare disorder that occurs when one or more tumors form in the pancreas and duodenum.
What is the gastrointestinal GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
The body digests food using the movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes.
Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine - which includes the appendix, cecum, colon, and rectum - and anus.
The intestines are sometimes called the bowel.
The last part of the GI tract - called the lower GI tract - consists of the large intestine and anus.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Hemophilia?
The major signs and symptoms of hemophilia are excessive bleeding and easy bruising.
What is fecal incontinence?
Fecal incontinence, also called a bowel control problem, is the accidental passing of solid or liquid stool or mucus from the rectum.
Fecal incontinence includes the inability to hold a bowel movement until reaching a toilet as well as passing stool into one's underwear without being aware of it happening.
Stool, also called feces, is solid waste that is passed as a bowel movement and includes undigested food, bacteria, mucus, and dead cells.
Mucus is a clear liquid that coats and protects tissues in the digestive system.
What research is being done for Asperger Syndrome?
Many of the Institutes at the NIH, including the NINDS, are sponsoring research to understand what causes AS and how it can be effectively treated.
One study is using functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI to show how abnormalities in particular areas of the brain cause changes in brain function that result in the symptoms of AS and other ASDs.
Other studies include a clinical trial testing the effectiveness of an anti-depressant in individuals with AS and HFA who exhibit high levels of obsessive/ritualistic behavior and a long-range study to collect and analyze DNA samples from a large group of children with AS and HFA and their families to identify genes and genetic interactions that are linked to AS and HFA.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
What is Occipital Neuralgia?
Occipital neuralgia is a distinct type of headache characterized by piercing, throbbing, or electric-shock-like chronic pain in the upper neck, back of the head, and behind the ears, usually on one side of the head.
Typically, the pain of occipital neuralgia begins in the neck and then spreads upwards.
Some individuals will also experience pain in the scalp, forehead, and behind the eyes.
Their scalp may also be tender to the touch, and their eyes especially sensitive to light.
The location of pain is related to the areas supplied by the greater and lesser occipital nerves, which run from the area where the spinal column meets the neck, up to the scalp at the back of the head.
The pain is caused by irritation or injury to the nerves, which can be the result of trauma to the back of the head, pinching of the nerves by overly tight neck muscles, compression of the nerve as it leaves the spine due to osteoarthritis, or tumors or other types of lesions in the neck.
Localized inflammation or infection, gout, diabetes, blood vessel inflammation vasculitis, and frequent lengthy periods of keeping the head in a downward and forward position are also associated with occipital neuralgia.
In many cases, however, no cause can be found.
A positive response relief from pain after an anesthetic nerve block will confirm the diagnosis.
What is Multiple System Atrophy with Orthostatic Hypotension?
Multiple system atrophy with orthostatic hypotension is the current classification for a neurological disorder that was once called Shy-Drager syndrome.
A progressive disorder of the central and autonomic nervous systems, it is characterized by orthostatic hypotension an excessive drop in blood pressure when standing up which causes dizziness or fainting.
Multiple system atrophy can occur without orthostatic hypotension, but instead have urinary involvement urgency/incontinence.
Doctors classify the disorder into 3 types: the Parkinsonian-type includes symptoms of Parkinson's disease such as slow movement, stiff muscles, and tremor; the cerebellar-type, which causes problems with coordination and speech; and the combined-type, which includes symptoms of both parkinsonism and cerebellar failure.
Problems with urinary incontinence, constipation, and sexual impotence in men happen early in the course of the disease.
Other symptoms include generalized weakness, double vision or other vision disturbances, difficulty breathing and swallowing, sleep disturbances, and decreased sweating.
Because the disease resembles others, a correct diagnosis may take years.
How is the cause of constipation diagnosed?
To diagnose the cause of constipation, the health care provider will take a medical history, perform a physical exam, and order specific tests.
The tests ordered depend on how long the person has been constipated; how severe the constipation is; the person's age; and whether the person has had blood in stools, recent changes in bowel habits, or weight loss.
Most people with constipation do not need extensive testing and can be treated with changes in diet and exercise.
How Harmful is Secondhand Smoke?
Secondhand smoke also causes death and sickness in children.
Babies who are around secondhand smoke are more likely to die of sudden infant death syndrome, or SIDS, than children who are not exposed to secondhand smoke.
Children whose parents smoke get more bronchitis and pneumonia, and they get more ear infections.
For a child with asthma, exposure to secondhand smoke can trigger an attack severe enough to send the child to the hospital.
What is Ehrlichiosis?
Ehrlichiosis is a serious illness that can be fatal if not treated correctly, even in previously healthy people.
How is restless legs syndrome diagnosed?
Physicians should focus largely on the individual's descriptions of symptoms, their triggers and relieving factors, as well as the presence or absence of symptoms throughout the day.
A neurological and physical exam, plus information from the individual's medical and family history and list of current medications, may be helpful.
Individuals may be asked about frequency, duration, and intensity of symptoms as well as their tendency toward daytime sleep patterns and sleepiness, disturbance of sleep, or daytime function.
How are febrile seizures prevented?
Children especially prone to febrile seizures may be treated with the drug diazepam orally or rectally, whenever they have a fever.
The majority of children with febrile seizures do not need to be treated with medication, but in some cases a doctor may decide that medicine given only while the child has a fever may be the best alternative.
This medication may lower the risk of having another febrile seizure.
It is usually well tolerated, although it occasionally can cause drowsiness, a lack of coordination, or hyperactivity.
Children vary widely in their susceptibility to such side effects.
What is Cerebellar hypoplasia?
Cerebellar hypoplasia is a feature of a number of congenital present at birth malformation syndromes, such as Walker-Warburg syndrome a form of muscular dystrophy.
Is Shingles Contagious?
A person with a shingles rash can pass the virus to someone, usually a child, who has never had chickenpox, In this case, the child will develop chickenpox, not shingles.
The child must come into direct contact with the open sores of the shingles rash.
Merely being in the same room with a shingles patient will not cause the child to catch chickenpox because during a shingles infection the virus is not normally in the lungs and therefore can't be spread through the air.
Q: Should boys get HPV vaccine too?
A: One HPV vaccine - the quadrivalent vaccine called Gardasil - is also for boys.
This vaccine helps prevent boys from getting infected with the types of HPV than can cause cancers of the throat, penis and anus.
The vaccine also prevents genital warts.
When boys are vaccinated, they are less likely to spread HPV to their current and future partners.
What are the complications of liver transplantation?
In addition, liver diseases can recur in transplanted livers.
The transplanted liver can be damaged if, for example, a person who had cirrhosis caused by long-term alcohol abuse resumes drinking after the transplant.
Recurrence of certain liver diseases such as hepatitis C can also damage the transplanted liver.
Recurrence of hepatitis B in the transplanted liver can now be prevented.
Finally, autoimmune diseases, such as autoimmune hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, and primary sclerosing cholangitis, may also recur.
What is a lower gastrointestinal GI series?
A lower GI series, also called a barium enema, is an x-ray exam used to help diagnose problems of the large intestine.
An x ray is a picture created by using radiation and recorded on film or on a computer.
To make the large intestine more visible on x ray, a health care provider will fill the person's intestine with a chalky liquid called barium.
The two types of lower GI series are.
What should you expect after a Polysomnogram?
Your sleep specialist can refer you to a local home equipment provider.
The home equipment provider will use your prescription to set up your CPAP machine.
Ask your sleep specialist to recommend a home equipment provider that has a lot of experience with CPAP.
Who needs to be concerned about food poisoning?
Anyone can get sick from eating bad food.
But food poisoning is a serious health risk for some people.
What is Constipation caused by?
Constipation is caused by stool spending too much time in the colon.
What research is being done for Cerebral Atrophy?
The NINDS funds research looking at many of the diseases and disorders that cause cerebral atrophy.
Understanding the biological mechanisms that cause neurons to die in the brain will help researchers find ways to prevent, treat, and even cure the diseases that lead to cerebral atrophy.
So, what can we do to prevent antibiotic resistance in healthcare settings?
Patients, healthcare providers, healthcare facility administrators, and policy makers must work together to employ effective strategies for improving antibiotic use - ultimately improving medical care and saving lives.
What is Heart failure?
Heart failure is a very common condition.
What Is Bone?
To understand osteoporosis, it is important to learn about bone.
Made mostly of collagen, bone is living, growing tissue.
Collagen is a protein that provides a soft framework, and calcium phosphate is a mineral that adds strength and hardens the framework.
This combination of collagen and calcium makes bone strong and flexible enough to withstand stress.
More than 99 percent of the body's calcium is contained in the bones and teeth.
The remaining 1 percent is found in the blood.
What research is being done on febrile seizures?
Investigators continue to monitor the long-term impact that febrile seizures might have on intelligence, behavior, school achievement, and the development of epilepsy.
For example, scientists conducting studies in animals are assessing the effects of febrile seizures, and especially very long seizures, on measures of intelligence and on the development of epilepsy.
In particular they are trying to see if they can predict which children experiencing a very long febrile seizure might be at a higher risk for these problems, and how this risk can be lessened or prevented.
What is Parkinson's disease PD?
Parkinson's disease PD is a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system.
What is Schizencephaly?
Schizencephaly is an extremely rare developmental birth defect characterized by abnormal slits, or clefts, in the cerebral hemispheres of the brain.
Babies with clefts in both hemispheres called bilateral clefts commonly have developmental delays, delays in speech and language skills, and problems with brain-spinal cord communication.
Individuals with clefts in only one hemisphere called unilateral clefts are often paralyzed on one side of the body, but may have average to near-average intelligence.
Individuals with schizencephaly may also have an abnormally small head, mental retardation, partial or complete paralysis, or poor muscle tone.
Most will experience seizures.
Some individuals may have an excessive accumulation of fluid in the brain called hydrocephalus.
What Is Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency?
Cirrhosis is a disease in which the liver becomes scarred.
The scarring prevents the organ from working well.
In people who have AAT deficiency, cirrhosis and other liver diseases usually occur in infancy and early childhood.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Asbestos-Related Lung Diseases?
The symptoms of lung cancer may include a worsening cough or a cough that won't go away, trouble breathing, ongoing chest pain, and coughing up blood.
Other symptoms of lung cancer include frequent lung infections, fatigue tiredness, and weight loss without a known cause.
What is BMI?
Body Mass Index BMI is a number calculated from a person's weight and height.
BMI is a fairly reliable indicator of body fatness for most people.
BMI does not measure body fat directly, but research has shown that BMI correlates to direct measures of body fat, such as underwater weighing and dual energy x-ray absorptiometry DXA.
BMI can be considered an alternative for direct measures of body fat.
Additionally, BMI is an inexpensive and easy-to-perform method of screening for weight categories that may lead to health problems.
What should you expect after Treatment?
They should, however, follow a healthy diet and adopt healthy lifestyle habits.
Taking these steps can help lower their risk of future heart disease.
Following a healthy lifestyle is advised for all children, not just those who have Kawasaki disease.
Is there any treatment for Syringomyelia?
Surgery is usually recommended for syringomyelia patients.
Recurrence of syringomyelia after surgery may make additional operations necessary; these may not be completely successful over the long term.
In some patients it may be necessary to drain the syrinx, which can be accomplished using a catheter, drainage tubes, and valves.
What is the prognosis for Miller Fisher Syndrome?
The prognosis for most individuals with Miller Fisher syndrome is good.
In most cases, recovery begins within 2 to 4 weeks of the onset of symptoms, and may be almost complete within 6 months.
Some individuals are left with residual deficits.
Relapses may occur rarely in less than 3 percent of cases.
What is PE most often?
PE most often is a complication of a condition called deep vein thrombosis DVT.
What is Cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a waxy substance material that's found naturally in your body.
What is Alcoholics Anonymous?
Alcoholics Anonymous is a fellowship of men and women who share their experience, strength and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism.
Is a Cemented or Uncemented Prosthesis Better?
Studies show that cemented and uncemented prostheses have comparable rates of success.
Studies also indicate that if you need an additional hip replacement, or revision, the rates of success for cemented and uncemented prostheses are comparable.
However, more long-term data are available in the United States for hip replacements with cemented prostheses, because doctors have been using them here since the late 1960s, whereas uncemented prostheses were not introduced until the late 1970s.
What are the complications of foodborne illnesses?
Foodborne illnesses may lead to dehydration, hemolytic uremic syndrome HUS, and other complications.
Acute foodborne illnesses may also lead to chronic - or long lasting - health problems.
How is Pain Diagnosed?
Electrodiagnostic procedures include electromyography EMG, nerve conduction studies, and evoked potential EP studies.
Information from EMG can help physicians tell precisely which muscles or nerves are affected by weakness or pain.
Thin needles are inserted in muscles and a physician can see or listen to electrical signals displayed on an EMG machine.
With nerve conduction studies the doctor uses two sets of electrodes similar to those used during an electrocardiogram that are placed on the skin over the muscles.
The first set gives the patient a mild shock that stimulates the nerve that runs to that muscle.
The second set of electrodes is used to make a recording of the nerve's electrical signals, and from this information the doctor can determine if there is nerve damage.
EP tests also involve two sets of electrodes-one set for stimulating a nerve these electrodes are attached to a limb and another set on the scalp for recording the speed of nerve signal transmission to the brain.
If I have had a transfusion or a transplant, should I be concerned about getting Chagas disease?
Probably not.
The risk is very low.
You should, however, be aware of the potential risk for Chagas disease infection and the need to monitor your health.
If you have symptoms of Chagas disease or other concerns you should contact your health care provider.
What is Cardiac MRI?
Cardiac MRI is a fast, accurate tool that can help diagnose a heart attack.
My two children have the same BMI values, but one is considered obese and the other is not.
Why is that?
The interpretation of BMI-for-age varies by age and sex so if the children are not exactly the same age and of the same sex, the BMI numbers have different meanings.
Calculating BMI-for-age for children of different ages and sexes may yield the same numeric result, but that number will fall at a different percentile for each child for one or both of the following reasons:
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of a Heart Murmur?
People who have innocent harmless heart murmurs don't have any signs or symptoms other than the murmur itself.
This is because innocent heart murmurs aren't caused by heart problems.
What are the dangers?
Aneurysms may burst and bleed into the brain, causing serious complications, including hemorrhagic stroke, permanent nerve damage, or death.
Once it has burst, the aneurysm may burst again and bleed into the brain, and additional aneurysms may also occur.
More commonly, rupture may cause a subarachnoid hemorrhage - bleeding into the space between the skull bone and the brain.
A delayed but serious complication of subarachnoid hemorrhage is hydrocephalus, in which the excessive buildup of cerebrospinal fluid in the skull dilates fluid pathways called ventricles that can swell and press on the brain tissue.
Another delayed postrupture complication is vasospasm, in which other blood vessels in the brain contract and limit blood flow to vital areas of the brain.
This reduced blood flow can cause stroke or tissue damage.
Is there any treatment for Wilson Disease?
WD requires lifelong treatment, generally using drugs that remove excess copper from the body and prevent it from re-accumulating.
Zinc, which blocks the absorption of copper in the stomach and causes no serious side effects, is often considered the treatment of choice.
Penicillamine and trientine are copper chelators that increase urinary excretion of copper; however, both drugs have some side effects.
Tetrathiomolybdate is an investigational copper chelating drug with a lower toxicity profile, but it has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of WD and its long-term safety and effectiveness aren't known.
A low-copper diet is also recommended, which involves avoiding mushrooms, nuts, chocolate, dried fruit, liver, and shellfish.
In rare cases where there is severe liver disease, a liver transplant may be needed.
Symptomatic treatment for symptoms of muscle spasm, stiffness, and tremor may include anticholinergics, tizanidine, baclofen, levodopa, or clonazepam.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing.
How do you get zoonotic diseases?
People can get zoonotic diseases from contact with infected live poultry, rodents, reptiles, amphibians, insects, and other domestic and wild animals.
A common way for these diseases to spread is through the bite of a mosquito or tick.
People can get diseases in most places where they might have contact with infected animals and insects, including:
What is Microsoft Excel?
Microsoft Excel is a spreadsheet program used to calculate, analyze, and store data.
What should I do if I think I have the flu?
If you get the flu, antiviral drugs are a treatment option.
Check with your doctor promptly if you have a high risk condition and you get flu symptoms see box below for the full list of high risk conditions.
Flu symptoms can include fever, cough, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, body aches, headache, chills and fatigue.
Your doctor may prescribe antiviral drugs to treat your flu illness.
What should you expect during an Electrocardiogram?
An electrocardiogram EKG is painless and harmless.
A nurse or technician will attach soft, sticky patches called electrodes to the skin of your chest, arms, and legs.
The patches are about the size of a quarter.
What are the benefits of physical activity?
If you choose vigorous activities, do at least 1 hour and 15 minutes a week.
Vigorous activities include things like jogging, jumping rope, swimming laps, or riding a bike on hills.
What is Surfactant?
Surfactant is a liquid that coats the inside of the lungs.
What is the prognosis for Infantile Neuroaxonal Dystrophy?
INAD is a progressive disease.
Once symptoms begin, they will worsen over time.
Generally, a baby's development starts to slow down between the ages of 6 months to 3 years.
The first symptoms may be slowing of motor and mental development, followed by loss or regression of previously acquired skills.
Rapid, wobbly eye movements and squints may be the first symptoms, followed by floppiness in the body and legs more than in the arms.
For the first few years, a baby with INAD will be alert and responsive, despite being increasingly physically impaired.
Eventually, because of deterioration in vision, speech, and mental skills, the child will lose touch with its surroundings.
Death usually occurs between the ages of 5 to 10 years.
What is Parkinson's Disease?
Parkinson's disease belongs to a group of conditions called movement disorders.
The four main symptoms are tremor, or trembling in hands, arms, legs, jaw, or head; rigidity, or stiffness of the limbs and trunk; bradykinesia, or slowness of movement; and postural instability, or impaired balance.
These symptoms usually begin gradually and worsen with time.
As they become more pronounced, patients may have difficulty walking, talking, or completing other simple tasks.
Not everyone with one or more of these symptoms has PD, as the symptoms appear in other diseases as well.
How is diverticular disease treated?
Treatment for diverticular disease depends on how serious the problem is and whether you are suffering from diverticulosis or diverticulitis.
Most people get better by changing their diet.
If you have rectal bleeding, you need to go to the hospital so a doctor can find the part of your colon that is bleeding.
The doctor may use a special drug that makes the bleeding stop.
The doctor may also decide to operate and remove the part of the colon that is bleeding.
What is Autism?
Autistic children have difficulties with social interaction, display problems with verbal and nonverbal communication, and exhibit repetitive behaviors or narrow, obsessive interests.
These behaviors can range in impact from mild to disabling.
Autism varies widely in its severity and symptoms and may go unrecognized, especially in mildly affected children or when more debilitating handicaps mask it.
Scientists aren't certain what causes autism, but it's likely that both genetics and environment play a role.
How common are febrile seizures?
Approximately one in every 25 children will have at least one febrile seizure, and more than one-third of these children will have additional febrile seizures before they outgrow the tendency to have them.
Febrile seizures usually occur in children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years and are particularly common in toddlers.
Children rarely develop their first febrile seizure before the age of 6 months or after 3 years of age.
The older a child is when the first febrile seizure occurs, the less likely that child is to have more.
What is Ataxia-telangiectasia?
Ataxia-telangiectasia is a rare, childhood neurological disorder that causes degeneration in the part of the brain that controls motor movements and speech
What is virtual colonoscopy?
Virtual colonoscopy, also called computerized tomography CT colonography, is a procedure that uses a combination of x rays and computer technology to create images of the rectum and entire colon.
Virtual colonoscopy can show irritated and swollen tissue, ulcers, and polyps - extra pieces of tissue that grow on the lining of the intestine.
How is carpal tunnel syndrome treated?
Drugs - In special circumstances, various drugs can ease the pain and swelling associated with carpal tunnel syndrome.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and other nonprescription pain relievers, may ease symptoms that have been present for a short time or have been caused by strenuous activity.
Orally administered diuretics water pills can decrease swelling.
Corticosteroids such as prednisone or the drug lidocaine can be injected directly into the wrist or taken by mouth in the case of prednisone to relieve pressure on the median nerve and provide immediate, temporary relief to persons with mild or intermittent symptoms.
Caution: persons with diabetes and those who may be predisposed to diabetes should note that prolonged use of corticosteroids can make it difficult to regulate insulin levels.
Corticosterioids should not be taken without a doctor's prescription.
Additionally, some studies show that vitamin B pyridoxine supplements may ease the symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome.
Who Is at Risk for Cardiomyopathy?
Teens and young adults are more likely than older people to have arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, although it's rare in both groups.
How can I get enough calcium?
Take a calcium pill every day.
You can choose a pill that has only calcium or a multivitamin with calcium.
Let your doctor know you are taking extra calcium.
What is the prognosis for Chorea?
The prognosis for individuals with chorea varies depending on the type of chorea and the associated disease.
Huntington's disease is a progressive, and ultimately, fatal disease.
Syndenham's chorea is treatable and curable.
What is A ventilator?
A ventilator is a machine that supports breathing.
What is the prognosis for Fibromuscular Dysplasia?
Currently there is no cure for FMD.
Medicines and angioplasty can reduce the risk of initial or recurrent stroke.
In rare cases, FMD-related aneurysms can burst and bleed into the brain, causing stroke, permanent nerve damage, or death.
What causes cerebral palsy?
Cerebral palsy is caused by abnormal development of part of the brain or by damage to parts of the brain that control movement.
This damage can occur before, during, or shortly after birth.
The majority of children have congenital cerebral palsy CP that is, they were born with it, although it may not be detected until months or years later.
A small number of children have acquired cerebral palsy, which means the disorder begins after birth.
Some causes of acquired cerebral palsy include brain damage in the first few months or years of life, brain infections such as bacterial meningitis or viral encephalitis, problems with blood flow to the brain, or head injury from a motor vehicle accident, a fall, or child abuse.
What Causes Endocarditis?
A common underlying factor in IE is a structural heart defect, especially faulty heart valves.
Usually your immune system will kill germs in your bloodstream.
However, if your heart has a rough lining or abnormal valves, the invading germs can attach and multiply in the heart.
How does Flu Vaccine are Monitored?
CDC also manages the Vaccine Safety Datalink VSD Project.
The VSD Project contains information on more than 9 million people in the participating managed care organizations.
VSD is used to assess whether certain health outcomes are more likely to occur after flu vaccination than would be expected.
VSD also is used to conduct other immunization safety studies when needed, as indicated by medical literature reviews, reports to VAERS, changes in immunization schedules, or the introduction of new vaccines.
What is An arrhythmia?
An arrhythmia is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat.
What Are the Risks of a Total Artificial Heart?
There's a small risk of dying during TAH surgery.
There's also a small risk that your body may respond poorly to the medicine used to put you to sleep during the surgery.
However, most patients survive and recover from TAH surgery.
What is the prognosis for Tardive Dyskinesia?
Symptoms of tardive dyskinesia may remain long after discontinuation of neuroleptic drugs.
In many cases, the symptoms stop spontaneously, but in some cases they may persist indefinitely.
What Are the Benefits of Quitting Smoking?
Heart disease risk associated with smoking begins to decrease soon after you quit.
It continues to decrease over time.
Your risk is cut in half 1 year after quitting.
If you have not developed heart disease within 15 years of quitting, your risk is nearly the same as the risk in someone who has never smoked.
What is Ataxia Telangiectasia?
Ataxia-telangiectasia is a rare, childhood neurological disorder that causes degeneration in the part of the brain that controls motor movements and speech.
The first signs of the disease are unsteady walking and slurred speech, usually occurring during the first five years of life.
Telangiectasias tiny, red spider veins, which appear in the corners of the eyes or on the surface of the ears and cheeks, are characteristic of the disease, but are not always present and generally do not appear in the first years of life.
About 35 percent of those with A-T develop cancer, most frequently acute lymphocytic leukemia or lymphoma.
The most unusual symptom is an acute sensitivity to ionizing radiation, such as X-rays or gamma rays.
Many individuals with A-T have a weakened immune system, making them susceptible to recurrent respiratory infections.
Other features of the disease may include mild diabetes mellitus, premature graying of the hair, difficulty swallowing, and delayed physical and sexual development.
Children with A-T usually have normal or above normal intelligence.
What are the complications of PSC?
PSC can lead to various complications, including.
What is the prognosis for Tropical Spastic Paraparesis?
HAM/TSP is a progressive disease, but it is rarely fatal.
Most individuals live for several decades after the diagnosis.
Their prognosis improves if they take steps to prevent urinary tract infection and skin sores, and if they participate in physical and occupational therapy programs.
What is the prognosis for Olivopontocerebellar Atrophy?
There is no cure for OPCA.
The disorder is slowly progressive with death usually occurring approximately 20 years after onset.
What is A bone scan?
A bone scan is a test that helps identify which bones have been affected by Paget's disease.
Who Needs CPAP?
If you have sleep apnea symptoms, your doctor may recommend an overnight sleep study.
A sleep study measures how much and how well you sleep.
It also can show whether you have sleep problems and how severe they are.
For more information, go to What To Expect Before Using CPAP..
Q: Will the vaccine cause cancer?
A: The HPV vaccine is made from one protein from the virus that cannot cause HPV infection or cancer.
What is Tourette syndrome TS?
Tourette syndrome TS is a neurological disorder characterized by repetitive, stereotyped, involuntary movements and vocalizations called tics.
What is Kearns-Sayre Syndrome?
Kearns-Sayre syndrome KSS is a rare neuromuscular disorder with onset usually before the age of 20 years.
It is the result of abnormalities in the DNA of mitochondria - small rod-like structures found in every cell of the body that produce the energy that drives cellular functions.
The mitochondrial diseases correlate with specific DNA mutations that cause problems with many of the organs and tissues in the body.
KSS is characterized by progressive limitation of eye movements until there is complete immobility, accompanied by eyelid droop.
It is also associated with abnormal accumulation of pigmented material on the membrane lining the eyes.
Additional symptoms may include mild skeletal muscle weakness, heart block a cardiac conduction defect, short stature, hearing loss, an inability to coordinate voluntary movements ataxia, impaired cognitive function, and diabetes.
Seizures are infrequent.
Several endocrine disorders can be associated with KSS.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is a painless test that creates a picture of the structures in your chest, such as your heart and lungs.
Is there any treatment for Central Cord Syndrome?
There is no cure for central cord syndrome although some people recover near-normal function.
There is no standard course of treatment, although drug therapy, surgery, and rest are often part of the program.
Magnetic resonance imaging MRI is used to indicate the degree of spinal cord compression and vertebral instability.
Vertebral instability due to acute traumatic injury or cervical disc herniation is often treated by surgery to prevent further damage to the spinal cord.
Recent reports indicate that earlier surgery may improve chances for recovery.
Numerous recent studies suggest that surgery also can be beneficial in individuals with persistent compression of the spinal cord and ongoing neurological deterioration.
What is a caregiver?
A caregiver is someone who helps a family member, friend, or neighbor who is sick or has a disability.
An informal or family caregiver often helps a loved one with basic daily tasks.
What Is ARDS?
ARDS, or acute respiratory distress syndrome, is a lung condition that leads to low oxygen levels in the blood.
ARDS can be life threatening because your body's organs need oxygen-rich blood to work well.
What is A continent ileostomy?
A continent ileostomy is an internal pouch, sometimes called a Kock pouch, fashioned from the end of the ileum just before it exits the abdominal wall as an ileostomy.
What do I need to know about gestational diabetes?
Gestational diabetes can lead to health problems for moms and babies - during and after pregnancy.
It's important to get tested so that you and your doctor or midwife can take steps to protect your health and your baby's health.
What is Botulinum toxin?
Botulinum toxin is a nerve blocking agent also known as Botox.
What are the rectum and colon?
The rectum and colon are part of the gastrointestinal GI tract, a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus, a 1-inch-long opening through which stool leaves the body.
The body digests food using the movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes.
Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine - which includes the appendix, cecum, colon, and rectum - and anus.
The intestines are sometimes called the bowel.
The last part of the GI tract - called the lower GI tract - consists of the large intestine and anus.
What causes A flu pandemic?
A flu pandemic is caused by a new flu virus that spreads easily and makes many people sick around the world.
Can severe problems occur?
While severe reactions are uncommon, you should let your doctor, nurse, clinic, or pharmacist know if you have a history of allergy or severe reaction to flu vaccine or any part of flu vaccine, including eggs, or if you have had Guillain-Barre Syndrome.
What happens in the hospital?
When a liver is available, you will need to get to the hospital quickly to be prepared for the surgery.
If your new liver is from a living donor, both you and the donor will have surgery at the same time.
If your new liver is from a deceased donor, your surgery will start when the new liver arrives at the hospital.
Who is at risk for prostate cancer?
Having a father, brother, or son who had prostate cancer.
What Is Scoliosis?
Scoliosis is a musculoskeletal disorder in which there is a sideways curvature of the spine, or backbone.
The bones that make up the spine are called vertebrae.
Some people who have scoliosis require treatment.
Other people, who have milder curves, may need to visit their doctor for periodic observation only.
What Does a Nuclear Heart Scan Show?
Decide whether procedures that increase blood flow to the coronary arteries will help you.
Examples of these procedures include angioplasty AN-jee-oh-plas-tee and coronary artery bypass grafting CABG.
What is Foot Drop?
Foot drop describes the inability to raise the front part of the foot due to weakness or paralysis of the muscles that lift the foot.
As a result, individuals with foot drop scuff their toes along the ground or bend their knees to lift their foot higher than usual to avoid the scuffing, which causes what is called a 'steppage' gait.
Foot drop can be unilateral affecting one foot or bilateral affecting both feet.
Foot drop is a symptom of an underlying problem and is either temporary or permanent, depending on the cause.
Causes include: neurodegenerative disorders of the brain that cause muscular problems, such as multiple sclerosis, stroke, and cerebral palsy; motor neuron disorders such as polio, some forms of spinal muscular atrophy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease; injury to the nerve roots, such as in spinal stenosis; peripheral nerve disorders such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease or acquired peripheral neuropathy; local compression or damage to the peroneal nerve as it passes across the fibular bone below the knee; and muscle disorders, such as muscular dystrophy or myositis.
Is there anything else I can do?
If you are a smoker, now would be a good time to quit.
Tobacco is toxic to your bones, putting you at higher risk for low bone mass and osteoporosis.
Excessive alcohol intake also may be damaging to your bones, and people who drink heavily tend to have more bone loss and fractures due to poor nutrition and an increased risk of falling.
How do I know if it's Alzheimer's disease?
If you or someone you know has several or even most of the signs listed above, it does not mean that you or they have Alzheimer's disease.
It is important to consult a health care provider when you or someone you know has concerns about memory loss, thinking skills, or behavioral changes.
What Can I Do?
If your state still allows smoking in public areas, look for restaurants and other places that do not allow smoking.
Let owners of business that are not smoke-free know that smoke bothers you and that a no-smoking section is not good enough.
Remember, separating smokers from nonsmokers, cleaning the air, and ventilating buildings does NOT eliminate exposure to secondhand smoke.
Can People With Scoliosis Exercise?
Although exercise programs have not been shown to affect the natural history of scoliosis, exercise is encouraged in patients with scoliosis to minimize any potential decrease in functional ability over time.
It is very important for all people, including those with scoliosis, to exercise and remain physically fit.
Girls have a higher risk than boys of developing osteoporosis a disorder that results in weak bones that can break easily later in life.
The risk of osteoporosis can be reduced in women who exercise regularly all their lives.
Also, weight-bearing exercise, such as walking, running, soccer, and gymnastics, can increase bone density and help to prevent osteoporosis.
For both boys and girls, exercising and participating in sports can also improve their general sense of well-being.
What is Your family's health history?
Your family's health history is an important part of your personal health record.
What Are Some Types of Osteogenesis Imperfecta?
There are 8 main types of osteogenesis imperfecta.
People with types 2, 3, 7, and 8 tend to have severe symptoms.
People with types 4, 5, and 6 tend to have more moderate symptoms.
People with type 1 tend to have mild symptoms.
There used to be only 4 types of OI, but then scientists found that even when symptoms look similar in a group of patients, they can be caused by problems in different genes.
This is why there are now 8 main types of OI instead of 4.
What areas have high mold exposures?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33566938.xml:
Is Rett syndrome inherited?
Although Rett syndrome is a genetic disorder, less than 1 percent of recorded cases are inherited or passed from one generation to the next.
Most cases are spontaneous, which means the mutation occurs randomly.
However, in some families of individuals affected by Rett syndrome, there are other female family members who have a mutation of their MECP2 gene but do not show clinical symptoms.
These females are known as 'asymptomatic female carriers.'.
How Can Polycythemia Vera Be Prevented?
People who have serious heart or lung diseases may develop secondary polycythemia.
Treatment for the underlying disease may improve the secondary polycythemia.
Following a healthy lifestyle to lower your risk of heart and lung diseases also will help you prevent secondary polycythemia.
What is the prognosis for Lesch-Nyhan Syndrome?
The prognosis for individuals with LNS is poor.
Death is usually due to renal failure in the first or second decade of life.
What is A heart murmur?
A heart murmur is the most common sign of Alagille syndrome other than liver disease.
What Can Blacks Do?
The theme for National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day 2014, I Am My Brother's/Sister's Keeper: Fight HIV/AIDS, means that everyone can be an important part of the solution to the HIV epidemic.
The Strategic Leadership Council, sponsor of the observance, encourages blacks to.
What is Plasmapheresis?
Plasmapheresis is a procedure that removes antibodies from the blood.
Is there any treatment for Mucopolysaccharidoses?
Currently there is no cure for these disease syndromes.
Medical care is directed at treating systemic conditions and improving the person's quality of life.
Physical therapy and daily exercise may delay joint problems and improve the ability to move.
Surgery to remove tonsils and adenoids may improve breathing among affected individuals with obstructive airway disorders and sleep apnea.
Surgery can also correct hernias, help drain excessive cerebrospinal fluid from the brain, and free nerves and nerve roots compressed by skeletal and other abnormalities.
Corneal transplants may improve vision among patients with significant corneal clouding.
Enzyme replacement therapy has proven useful in reducing non-neurological symptoms and pain.
In 2006, the FDA approved the drug idursulfase Elaprase for the treatment of MPS II Hunter syndrome.
This is the first drug shown to have any benefit for one of the mucopolysaccharidoses.
How Is von Willebrand Disease Treated?
Treatment for von Willebrand disease VWD is based on the type of VWD you have and how severe it is.
Most cases of VWD are mild, and you may need treatment only if you have surgery, tooth extraction, or an accident.
What is A bone scan?
A bone scan is a test in which a small amount of radioactive dye is injected into a vein in the arm.
What is the treatment for hepatitis D?
Chronic hepatitis D is usually treated with pegylated interferon, although other potential treatments are under study.
Is there any treatment for Kleine-Levin Syndrome?
There is no definitive treatment for Kleine-Levin syndrome and watchful waiting at home, rather than pharmacotherapy, is most often advised.
Stimulant pills, including amphetamines, methylphenidate, and modafinil, are used to treat sleepiness but may increase irritability and will not improve cognitive abnormalities.
Because of similarities between Kleine-Levin syndrome and certain mood disorders, lithium and carbamazepine may be prescribed and, in some cases, have been shown to prevent further episodes.
This disorder should be differentiated from cyclic re-occurrence of sleepiness during the premenstrual period in teen-aged girls, which may be controlled with birth control pills.
It also should be differentiated from encephalopathy, recurrent depression, or psychosis.
What Is Arthritis?
Many people start to feel pain and stiffness in their bodies over time.
Sometimes their hands or knees or shoulders get sore and are hard to move and may become swollen.
These people may have arthritis ar-THRY-tis.
Arthritis may be caused by inflammation in-flah-MAY-shun, of the tissue lining the joints.
Some signs of inflammation include redness, heat, pain, and swelling.
These problems are telling you that something is wrong.
What is type 2 diabetes?
When you have diabetes, your body has trouble turning glucose into energy.
Instead of being used by your body, the glucose builds up in your blood.
The rest of your body is starved of energy.
How is CPAP also used?
CPAP also is used to treat preterm infants whose lungs have not fully developed.
What is the prognosis for Pervasive Developmental Disorders?
Early intervention including appropriate and specialized educational programs and support services plays a critical role in improving the outcome of individuals with PDD.
PDD is not fatal and does not affect normal life expectancy.
What is Cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a fatty substance that's found in animal-based foods such as meats, poultry, egg yolks, and whole milks.
Want to learn more?
If you've not been physically active in a while, you may be wondering how to get started again.
Lace up those sneakers and find some motivating ideas.
What is Blood pressure?
Blood pressure is the force of blood on the walls of your blood vessels as blood flows through them.
What is A CT scan?
A CT scan is an imaging technique that provides the doctor with a three-dimensional picture of the bone.
What is the prognosis for Multifocal Motor Neuropathy?
Improvement in muscle strength usually begins within 3 to 6 weeks after treatment is started.
Most patients who receive treatment early experience little, if any, disability.
However, there is evidence of slow progression over many years.
How does TB Spread?
TB is spread through the air from one person to another.
The TB bacteria are put into the air when a person with TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs, sneezes, speaks, or sings.
People nearby may breathe in these bacteria and become infected.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What is Syncope?
There are several types of syncope.
Vasovagal syncope usually has an easily identified triggering event such as emotional stress, trauma, pain, the sight of blood, or prolonged standing.
Carotid sinus syncope happens because of constriction of the carotid artery in the neck and can occur after turning the head, while shaving, or when wearing a tight collar.
Situational syncope happens during urination, defecation, coughing, or as a result of gastrointestinal stimulation.
Syncope can also be a symptom of heart disease or abnormalities that create an uneven heart rate or rhythm that temporarily affect blood volume and its distribution in the body.
Syncope isn't normally a primary sign of a neurological disorder, but it may indicate an increased risk for neurologic disorders such as Parkinson's disease, postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome POTS, diabetic neuropathy, and other types of neuropathy.
Certain classes of drugs are associated with an increased risk of syncope, including diuretics, calcium antagonists, ACE inhibitors, nitrates, antipsychotics, antihistamines, levodopa, narcotics, and alcohol.
What Are the Available Treatments?
The treatment strategies for Paget's disease and osteoarthritis are quite different, so it is important to distinguish between the two when making therapy-related decisions.
For example, people with both disorders who get good results from their Paget's disease treatment may continue to experience osteoarthritis-related pain.
Correctly identifying osteoarthritis as the source of pain is critical to the selection of effective treatments.
What is the prognosis for Neurological Consequences of Cytomegalovirus Infection?
Unborn infants whose mothers have CMVinfection.
CMV is the most common congenital infection in the U.S.
Most infants will have no permanent health consequences, but a small number will have at birth or will develop long-term neurological conditions, such as hearing loss, visual impairment, seizures, or disabilities f mental or physical function.
The highest risk of these severe effects on the fetus is for women who acquire CMV infection for the first time during pregnancy.
The risk is much lower for women who have had CMV infection in the past before pregnancy.
How Can I Tell if Someone I Know, Train With, or Coach May Be at Risk for Bone Loss, Fracture, and Other Health Problems?
behaviors that reflect frequent dieting, such as eating very little, not eating in front of others, trips to the bathroom following meals, preoccupation with thinness or weight, focus on low-calorie and diet foods, possible increase in the consumption of water and other no- and low-calorie foods and beverages, possible increase in gum chewing, limiting diet to one food group, or eliminating a food group.
What is The IPG the battery pack?
The IPG the battery pack is the third component and is usually implanted under the skin near the collarbone.
As an adult, do I need the MMR vaccine?
You should get the measles vaccine if you are not among the categories listed above, and.
What is Lyme disease caused by?
Lyme disease is caused by a bacterial organism that is transmitted to humans via the bite of an infected tick.
What is Recurrent stroke?
Recurrent stroke is a major contributor to stroke disability and death, with the risk of severe disability or death from stroke increasing with each stroke recurrence.
What is Secondhand smoke?
Secondhand smoke is the smoke that comes from the burning end of a cigarette, cigar, or pipe.
What Causes Epilepsy?
Epilepsy may develop because of an abnormality in brain wiring, an imbalance of nerve signaling chemicals called neurotransmitters, or some combination of these factors.
Researchers believe that some people with epilepsy have an abnormally high level of excitatory neurotransmitters that increase neuronal activity, while others have an abnormally low level of inhibitory neurotransmitters that decrease neuronal activity in the brain.
Either situation can result in too much neuronal activity and cause epilepsy.
One of the most-studied neurotransmitters that plays a role in epilepsy is GABA, or gamma-aminobutyric acid, which is an inhibitory neurotransmitter.
Research on GABA has led to drugs that alter the amount of this neurotransmitter in the brain or change how the brain responds to it.
Researchers also are studying excitatory neurotransmitters such as glutamate.
What is A nasoscope?
A nasoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What causes constipation?
Constipation is caused by stool spending too much time in the colon.
The colon absorbs too much water from the stool, making it hard and dry.
Hard, dry stool is more difficult for the muscles of the rectum to push out of the body.
What Causes Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation?
The two types of DIC are acute and chronic.
Acute DIC begins with clotting in the small blood vessels and quickly leads to serious bleeding.
Chronic DIC causes blood clotting, but it usually doesn't lead to bleeding.
Cancer is the most common cause of chronic DIC.
What is Myoclonus?
Myoclonus refers to a sudden, involuntary jerking of a muscle or group of muscles.
In its simplest form, myoclonus consists of a muscle twitch followed by relaxation.
A hiccup is an example of this type of myoclonus.
Other familiar examples of myoclonus are the jerks or sleep starts that some people experience while drifting off to sleep.
These simple forms of myoclonus occur in normal, healthy persons and cause no difficulties.
When more widespread, myoclonus may involve persistent, shock-like contractions in a group of muscles.
Myoclonic jerking may develop in people with multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, or Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
Myoclonic jerks commonly occur in persons with epilepsy, a disorder in which the electrical activity in the brain becomes disordered and leads to seizures.
Myoclonus may develop in response to infection, head or spinal cord injury, stroke, brain tumors, kidney or liver failure, lipid storage disease, chemical or drug poisoning, or other disorders.
It can occur by itself, but most often it is one of several symptoms associated with a wide variety of nervous system disorders.
What research is being done for Behcet's Disease?
The NINDS supports research on painful neurological disorders such as Behcet's disease.
The National Human Genome Research Institute, another Institute of the National Institutes of Health, conducts research into the genomic basis of Behcet's disease.
This research is aimed at discovering the causes of these disorders and finding ways to treat, prevent, and, ultimately, cure them.
What Causes High Blood Cholesterol?
Many factors can affect the cholesterol levels in your blood.
You can control some factors, but not others.
What is Seeking help?
Seeking help is the best thing you can do for yourself, and the best way to start feeling better.
Is there any treatment for Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis?
Currently, there is no cure for SSPE.
Clinical trials of antiviral isoprinosine and ribavirin and immunomodulatory interferon alpha drugs have suggested that these types of therapies given alone or in combination halt the progression of the disease and can prolong life, but their long-term effects on individuals, and eventual outcome, are unknown.
Good nursing care is the most important aspect of treatment for SSPE, along with anticonvulsant and antispasmodic drugs when needed.
How Is Marfan Syndrome Diagnosed?
If you're diagnosed with Marfan syndrome, all of your first-degree relatives for example, parents, siblings, and children also should be checked for the disorder.
This is because, even in families, the outward traits of Marfan syndrome may vary quite a bit.
What Causes Peripheral Arterial Disease?
Eventually, a section of plaque can rupture break open, causing a blood clot to form at the site.
The buildup of plaque or blood clots can severely narrow or block the arteries and limit the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your body.
What research is being done for Post-Polio Syndrome?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct research related to PPS in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional PPS research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a disease in which the bones become weak and are more likely to break.
What is the prognosis for Paroxysmal Hemicrania?
Many patients experience complete to near-complete relief of symptoms following physician-supervised medical treatment.
Paroxysmal hemicrania may last indefinitely but has been known to go into remission or stop spontaneously.
What Causes Asthma Symptoms To Occur?
Other health conditions can make asthma harder to manage.
Examples of these conditions include a runny nose, sinus infections, reflux disease, psychological stress, and sleep apnea.
These conditions should be treated as part of an overall asthma care plan.
What Else Can My Kids Do Besides Eating Calcium-Rich Foods and Getting Plenty of Weight-Bearing Exercise to Keep Their Bones Healthy?
They should avoid smoking.
You probably know that smoking is bad for the heart and lungs, but you may not know that it's harmful to bone tissue.
Smoking may harm your bones both directly and indirectly.
Several studies have linked smoking to higher risk of fracture.
The many dangers associated with smoking make it a habit to be avoided.
What is Abiraterone acetate?
Abiraterone acetate is an inhibitor of androgen biosynthesis that works by blocking cytochrome P450c17 CYP17.
What is Creating a tracheostomy?
Creating a tracheostomy is a fairly common, simple procedure.
What is OCTOCEPHALY?
OCTOCEPHALY is a lethal condition in which the primary feature is agnathia - a developmental anomaly characterized by total or virtual absence of the lower jaw.
What is the prognosis for Thyrotoxic Myopathy?
With treatment, muscle weakness may improve or be reversed.
What Causes Marfan Syndrome?
Sometimes Marfan syndrome isn't inherited.
The mutation in the fibrillin gene occurs in the egg or sperm cells.
If a child is conceived, the altered gene may be passed on to the child.
The risk of that child's brothers or sisters having Marfan syndrome is low.
What happens during an eye exam?
The doctor will put drops in your eyes to dilate enlarge your pupils.
A dilated eye exam is the only way to find some types of eye disease.
How do I know if I have AAA?
There are usually no symptoms of AAA.
Blood vessels like the aorta can swell up slowly over time.
That's why it's important to talk with your doctor about AAA to see if you are at risk.
What Is von Willebrand Disease?
Normally, when one of your blood vessels is injured, you start to bleed.
Small blood cell fragments called platelets PLATE-lets clump together to plug the hole in the blood vessel and stop the bleeding.
Von Willebrand factor acts like glue to help the platelets stick together and form a blood clot.
What causes Midline tract cancer?
Midline tract cancer is caused by a change in a chromosome.
Who Is at Risk for Varicose Veins?
Many factors may raise your risk for varicose veins, including family history, older age, gender, pregnancy, overweight or obesity, lack of movement, and leg trauma.
What research is being done for Striatonigral Degeneration?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on disorders of the brain and nervous system such as striatonigral degeneration.
This research focuses on finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.
Are there any circumstances where people should vacate a home or other building because of mold?
These decisions have to be made individually.
If you believe you are ill because of exposure to mold in a building, you should consult your physician to determine the appropriate action to take.
How Is Immune Thrombocytopenia Treated?
The acute short-term type of ITP that occurs in children often goes away within a few weeks or months.
Children who have bleeding symptoms, other than merely bruising purpura, usually are treated.
What is A common sign?
A common sign is the pericardial rub.
What is Cerebro-Oculo-Facio-Skeletal Syndrome COFS?
Cerebro-oculo-facio-skeletal syndrome COFS is a pediatric, genetic, degenerative disorder that involves the brain and the spinal cord.
It is characterized by craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities, severely reduced muscle tone, and impairment of reflexes.
Symptoms may include large, low-set ears, small eyes, microcephaly abnormal smallness of the head, micrognathia abnormal smallness of the jaws, clenched fists, wide-set nipples, vision impairments, involuntary eye movements, and mental retardation, which can be moderate or severe.
Respiratory infections are frequent.
COFS is diagnosed at birth.
Ultrasound technology can detect fetuses with COFS at an early stage of pregnancy, as the fetus moves very little, and some of the abnormalities result, in part, from lack of movement.
How do I know if I have food poisoning?
Signs of food poisoning can start hours or even days after eating bad food.
Usually the effects only last for 1 or 2 days, but they may last up to 2 weeks.
What research is being done for Hydranencephaly?
The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development.
The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how this process can go awry and, thus, offers hope for new means to treat and prevent developmental brain disorders, including hydranencephaly.
Am I Really at Risk?
Because more women get osteoporosis than men, many men think they are not at risk for the disease.
Many Hispanic and African American women are not concerned about their bones either.
They believe that osteoporosis is only a problem for white women.
However, it is a real risk for older men and women from all backgrounds.
What is the prognosis for Asperger Syndrome?
With effective treatment, children with AS can learn to cope with their disabilities, but they may still find social situations and personal relationships challenging.
Many adults with AS are able to work successfully in mainstream jobs, although they may continue to need encouragement and moral support to maintain an independent life.
What is BMI?
Body Mass Index BMI is a number calculated from a child's weight and height.
BMI is a reliable indicator of body fatness for most children and teens.
BMI does not measure body fat directly, but research has shown that BMI correlates to direct measures of body fat, such as underwater weighing and dual energy x-ray absorptiometry DXA.
BMI can be considered an alternative for direct measures of body fat.
Additionally, BMI is an inexpensive and easy-to-perform method of screening for weight categories that may lead to health problems.
What behavioral strategies help people cope with symptoms?
Safety precautions, particularly when driving, are particularly important for all persons with narcolepsy.
EDS and cataplexy can lead to serious injury or death if left uncontrolled.
Suddenly falling asleep or losing muscle control can transform actions that are ordinarily safe, such as walking down a long flight of stairs, into hazards.
People with untreated narcoleptic symptoms are involved in automobile accidents roughly 10 times more frequently than the general population.
However, accident rates are normal among individuals who have received appropriate medication.
Who needs to get their cholesterol checked?
Men under age 35 who have heart disease or risk factors for heart disease.
What should you expect before Total Artificial Heart Surgery?
During this time, you'll learn about the TAH and how to live with it.
You and your loved ones will spend time with your surgeons, cardiologist heart specialist, and nurses to make sure you have all the information you need before surgery.
You can ask to see what the device looks like and how it will be attached inside your body.
How Is Immune Thrombocytopenia Diagnosed?
Your doctor will want to make sure that your low platelet count isn't due to another condition such as an infection or medicines you're taking such as chemotherapy medicines or aspirin.
What is Computerized tomography CT?
Computerized tomography CT is a quick and painless process used when disc rupture, spinal stenosis, or damage to vertebrae is suspected as a cause of low back pain.
What research is being done for Cerebral Palsy?
Researchers are investigating the roles of mishaps early in brain development, including genetic defects, which are sometimes responsible for the brain malformations and abnormalities that result in cerebral palsy.
Scientists are also looking at traumatic events in newborn babies' brains, such as bleeding, epileptic seizures, and breathing and circulation problems, which can cause the abnormal release of chemicals that trigger the kind of damage that causes cerebral palsy.
Researchers also hope to find ways to prevent white matter disease--the most common cause of cerebral palsy.
To make sure children are getting the right kinds of therapies, studies are also being done that evaluate both experimental treatments and treatments already in use so that physicians and parents have valid information to help them choose the best therapy.
What are CDC's recommendations for feeding infants?
This small study of perchlorate in infant formula made use of estimates and models of hypothetical exposure scenarios.
Because of the small number of samples tested, the findings cannot be generalized to entire brands of formula.
CDC has made no new recommendations based on the findings.
What is SCHIZENCEPHALY?
SCHIZENCEPHALY is a rare developmental disorder characterized by abnormal slits, or clefts, in the cerebral hemispheres.
What Is CPAP?
CPAP also may be used to treat preterm infants whose lungs have not fully developed.
For example, doctors may use CPAP to treat infants who have respiratory distress syndrome or bronchopulmonary dysplasia brong-ko-PULL-mun-ary dis-PLA-ze-ah.
What is the prognosis for Primary Lateral Sclerosis?
PLS is not fatal.
There is no cure and the progression of symptoms varies.
Some people may retain the ability to walk without assistance, but others eventually require wheelchairs, canes, or other assistive devices.
What is Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease?
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease CMT is one of the most common inherited neurological disorders, affecting approximately 1 in 2,500 people in the United States.
CMT, also known as hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy HMSN or peroneal muscular atrophy, comprises a group of disorders caused by mutations in genes that affect the normal function of the peripheral nerves.
The peripheral nerves lie outside the brain and spinal cord and supply the muscles and sensory organs in the limbs.
A typical feature includes weakness of the foot and lower leg muscles, which may result in foot drop and a high-stepped gait with frequent tripping or falling.
Foot deformities, such as high arches and hammertoes a condition in which the middle joint of a toe bends upwards, are also characteristic due to weakness of the small muscles in the feet.
In addition, the lower legs may take on an inverted champagne bottle appearance due to the loss of muscle bulk.
Later in the disease, weakness and muscle atrophy may occur in the hands, resulting in difficulty with fine motor skills.
Some individuals experience pain, which can range from mild to severe.
How is the cause of gas found?
If milk or milk products are causing gas, your health care provider may perform blood or breath tests to check for lactose intolerance.
Lactose intolerance means you have trouble digesting lactose.
Your health care provider may ask you to avoid milk and milk products for a short time to see if your gas symptoms improve.
Is thimerosal being used in other vaccines?
Since 2001, no new vaccine licensed by FDA for use in children has contained thimerosal as a preservative, and all vaccines routinely recommended by CDC for children younger than 6 years of age have been thimerosal-free, or contain only trace amounts of thimerosal, except for multi-dose formulations of influenza vaccine.
The most recent and rigorous scientific research does not support the argument that thimerosal-containing vaccines are harmful.
However, CDC and FDA continually evaluate new scientific information about the safety of vaccines.
How is ALS treated?
Individuals may eventually consider forms of mechanical ventilation respirators in which a machine inflates and deflates the lungs.
To be effective, this may require a tube that passes from the nose or mouth to the windpipe trachea and for long-term use, an operation such as a tracheostomy, in which a plastic breathing tube is inserted directly in the patient's windpipe through an opening in the neck.
Patients and their families should consider several factors when deciding whether and when to use one of these options.
Ventilation devices differ in their effect on the person's quality of life and in cost.
Although ventilation support can ease problems with breathing and prolong survival, it does not affect the progression of ALS.
People need to be fully informed about these considerations and the long-term effects of life without movement before they make decisions about ventilation support.
Are You or Your Loved Ones At Risk?
CDC's Policy Impact: Prescription Painkiller Overdoses summarizes information about deaths and emergency department visits resulting from prescription painkiller overdoses.
Learn about drug overdose trends, the most common drugs involved, regions and populations most severely affected, and recommendations for prevention.
What is Body mass index BMI?
Body mass index BMI is a measure used to determine childhood overweight and obesity.
Who Needs Transesophageal Echocardiography?
Doctors may recommend transesophageal echocardiography TEE to help diagnose a heart or blood vessel disease or condition.
TEE can be used for adults and children.
What are the complications of abdominal adhesions?
Abdominal adhesions can lead to female infertility by preventing fertilized eggs from reaching the uterus, where fetal development takes place.
Women with abdominal adhesions in or around their fallopian tubes have an increased chance of ectopic pregnancy - a fertilized egg growing outside the uterus.
Abdominal adhesions inside the uterus may result in repeated miscarriages - a pregnancy failure before 20 weeks.
Who Is at Risk for an Aneurysm?
A family history of aortic aneurysms.
People who have family histories of aortic aneurysms are at higher risk for the condition, and they may have aneurysms before the age of 65.
How does a person prepare for a flexible sigmoidoscopy?
cleansing the bowel.
The health care provider will give written bowel prep instructions to follow at home.
A health care provider orders a bowel prep so that little to no stool is present inside the person's intestine.
A complete bowel prep lets the person pass stool that is clear.
Stool inside the colon can prevent the health care provider from clearly seeing the lining of the intestine.
Instructions may include following a clear liquid diet for 1 to 3 days before the procedure and avoiding drinks that contain red or purple dye.
The instructions will provide specific direction about when to start and stop the clear liquid diet.
During this diet, people may drink or eat the following: fat-free bouillon or broth.
What Are the Risks of Lung Function Tests?
Spirometry, lung volume measurement tests, and lung diffusion capacity tests usually are safe.
These tests rarely cause problems.
Can taking aspirin every day cause any side effects?
Talk to your doctor before you start taking aspirin every day.
Be sure to tell your doctor about any health conditions you have like asthma or bleeding problems.
When do symptoms appear?
In most cases, symptoms first appear when people are between the ages of 7 and 25.
In rare cases, however, narcolepsy may appear at younger age or in older adults.
If left undiagnosed and untreated, early onset narcolepsy can interfere with psychological, social, and cognitive function and development and can undermine academic and social activities.
How is depression treated?
Depression can be treated with talk therapy, medicines called antidepressants, or both.
Your doctor may refer you to a specialist for talk therapy or medicine.
What Causes Pericarditis?
Viral infections are likely a common cause of pericarditis, although the virus may never be found.
Pericarditis often occurs after respiratory infections.
Bacterial, fungal, and other infections also can cause pericarditis.
What is the prognosis for Fabry Disease?
Patients with Fabry disease often die prematurely of complications from strokes, heart disease, or renal failure.
What should you expect before Cardioversion?
TEE involves a flexible tube with a device at its tip that sends sound waves.
Your doctor will guide the tube down your throat and into your esophagus the passage leading from your mouth to your stomach.
You'll be given medicine to make you sleep during the procedure.
What is Multiple Sclerosis?
Multiple sclerosis MS is a neuroinflammatory disease that affects myelin , a substance that makes up the membrane called the myelin sheath that wraps around nerve fibers axons.
Myelinated axons are commonly called white matter.
Researchers have learned that MS also damages the nerve cell bodies, which are found in the brain's gray matter, as well as the axons themselves in the brain, spinal cord, and optic nerve the nerve that transmits visual information from the eye to the brain.
As the disease progresses, the brain's cortex shrinks cortical atrophy.
What is Echocardiography echo?
Echocardiography echo is a painless test that uses sound waves to create a moving picture of the heart.
What is Leptospirosis caused by?
Leptospirosis is a disease caused by bacteria.
Are there treatments available for MS?
There is still no cure for MS, but there are treatments for initial attacks, medications and therapies to improve symptoms, and recently developed drugs to slow the worsening of the disease.
These new drugs have been shown to reduce the number and severity of relapses and to delay the long term progression of MS.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
I am 2 months pregnant.
Is it safe for me to have my 15-month-old child vaccinated with the MMR vaccine?
Yes.
Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine viruses are not transmitted from the vaccinated person, so MMR does not pose a risk to a pregnant household member.
Are new prophylactics and therapeutics against the 1918 virus under way?
The reconstruction of the 1918 virus will enable CDC to pursue development of a vaccine candidate reference virus that would provide optimal protection against this or similar viruses.
Do I need to get the hepatitis B vaccine shot?
If you think you might be at risk for hepatitis B, talk with your doctor or nurse about getting the vaccine.
Find out more about who needs to get the hepatitis B vaccine.
What is Hormone therapy?
Hormone therapy is a cancer treatment that removes hormones or blocks their action and stops cancer cells from growing.
How common is Zollinger-Ellison syndrome?
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is rare and only occurs in about one in every 1 million people.
Although anyone can get Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, the disease is more common among men 30 to 50 years old.
A child who has a parent with MEN1 is also at increased risk for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
What is Diverticular disease?
Diverticular disease is a condition that occurs when a person has problems from small pouches, or sacs, that have formed and pushed outward through weak spots in the colon wall.
What is Rotavirus?
Rotavirus is the leading cause of gastroenteritis among infants and young children.
What is Ohtahara Syndrome?
Ohtahara syndrome is a neurological disorder characterized by seizures.
The disorder affects newborns, usually within the first three months of life most often within the first 10 days in the form of epileptic seizures.
Infants have primarily tonic seizures, but may also experience partial seizures, and rarely, myoclonic seizures.
Ohtahara syndrome is most commonly caused by metabolic disorders or structural damage in the brain, although the cause or causes for many cases can't be determined.
Most infants with the disorder show significant underdevelopment of part or all of the cerebral hemispheres.
The EEGs of infants with Ohtahara syndrome reveal a characteristic pattern of high voltage spike wave discharge followed by little activity.
This pattern is known as 'burst suppression.' Doctors have observed that boys are more often affected than girls.
What causes Bacterial conjunctivitis?
Bacterial conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with certain bacteria.
What should you expect before Blood Tests?
Other blood tests require fasting not eating any food for 8 to 12 hours before the test.
Your doctor will tell you how to prepare for your blood tests.
What aboutBRCA1/2 Genetic Testing?
Genetic testing is available to find out if a woman has inherited a change in either their BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene.
However, most breast and ovarian cancer is not caused by these genetic changes, so BRCA1/2 genetic testing will be helpful only for a small number of women.
If you are concerned about your family history, you should meet with a genetic counselor or other qualified health care professional to discuss:
What is Body Mass Index BMI?
Body Mass Index BMI is a number calculated from a person's weight and height.
What is A facemask?
A facemask is a loose-fitting, disposable device that creates a physical barrier between the mouth and nose of the wearer and potential contaminants in the immediate environment.
Who Gets Paget's Disease?
About one million people in the United States have Paget's disease.
The disease is more common in older people and those of Northern European descent.
Men are more likely than women to have the disease.
What is Status migrainosus?
Status migrainosus is a rare and severe type of acute migraine in which disabling pain and nausea can last 72 hours or longer.
What is a possible complication of autoimmune hepatitis and cirrhosis?
People with autoimmune hepatitis and cirrhosis are at risk of developing liver cancer.
A health care provider will monitor the person with a regular ultrasound examination of the liver.
Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure.
A specially trained technician performs the procedure in a health care provider's office, an outpatient center, or a hospital, and a radiologist - a doctor who specializes in medical imaging - interprets the images; anesthesia is not needed.
The images can show the liver's size and the presence of cancerous tumors.
What do People With Diabete Need to Know About Osteoporosi?
Osteoporosis Management Strategies.
What is Osteoarthritis OA?
Osteoarthritis OA is a painful and often limiting joint disease that affects 27 million American adults.
What is the prognosis for Spinal Muscular Atrophy?
The prognosis is poor for babies with SMA Type I.
Most die within the first two years.
For children with SMA Type II, the prognosis for life expectancy or for independent standing or walking roughly correlates with how old they are when they first begin to experience symptoms - older children tend to have less severe symptoms Life expectancy is reduced but some individuals live into adolescence or young adulthood.
Individuals with SMA type III may be prone to respiratory infections but with care may have a normal lifespan.
What is The CDC Vital Signs program?
The CDC Vital Signs program is a call to action each month concerning a single, important public health topic.
What is a variant influenza virus?
When an influenza virus that normally circulates in swine but not people is detected in a person, it is called a 'variant influenza virus.' For example, if a swine origin influenza A H3N2 virus is detected in a person, that virus will be called an 'H3N2 variant' virus or 'H3N2v' virus.
This naming convention was first announced in a January 6, 2012 Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report entitled Update: Influenza A H3N2v Transmission and Guidelines - Five States, 2011.
See Box.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which bones weaken and are more likely to fracture.
What research is being done for Central Pontine Myelinolysis?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS supports research related to CPM and EPM in laboratories at the NIH, and funds additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure these disorders.
What is the prognosis for Myasthenia Gravis?
With treatment, most individuals with myasthenia can significantly improve their muscle weakness.
Some case of myasthenia gravis may go into remission temporarily, and muscle weakness may disappear so that medications can be discontinued.
In a few cases, the severe weakness of myasthenia gravis may cause respiratory failure, which requires immediate emergency medical care.
What causes gas?
Normally, few bacteria live in the small intestine.
Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth SIBO is an increase in the number of bacteria or a change in the type of bacteria in the small intestine.
These bacteria can produce excess gas and may also cause diarrhea and weight loss.
SIBO is usually related to diseases or disorders that damage the digestive system or affect how it works, such as Crohn's disease or diabetes.
What is the small intestine?
Most food digestion and nutrient absorption take place in the small intestine.
The small intestine measures about 20 feet long and includes the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum.
Villi - tiny, fingerlike protrusions - line the inside of the small intestine.
Villi normally let nutrients from food be absorbed through the walls of the small intestine into the bloodstream.
How Can I Prevent Broken Bones if I Fall?
Sometimes you cannot prevent a fall.
If you do fall, you can try to prevent breaking a bone.
Try to fall forwards or backwards on your buttocks, because if you fall to the side you may break your hip.
You can also use your hands or grab things around you to break a fall.
Some people wear extra clothes to pad their hips or use special hip pads.
What is Hepatitis B?
Hepatitis means inflammation of the liver.
Hepatitis B is a contagious liver disease that results from infection with the Hepatitis B virus.
When a person becomes infected, the Hepatitis B virus can stay in the person's body for the rest of his or her life and cause serious liver problems, including liver cancer.
Unfortunately, up to two-thirds of Americans with chronic hepatitis B may be living with the virus and do not know they are infected.
What Is Aplastic Anemia?
Red blood cells carry oxygen to all parts of your body.
They also carry carbon dioxide a waste product to your lungs to be exhaled.
White blood cells help your body fight infections.
Platelets are blood cell fragments that stick together to seal small cuts or breaks on blood vessel walls and stop bleeding.
What research is being done for Myasthenia?
Different drugs are being tested, either alone or in combination with existing drug therapies, to see if they are effective in treating myasthenia gravis.
One study is examining the use of methotrexate therapy in individuals who develop symptoms and signs of the disease while on prednisone therapy.
The drug suppresses blood cell activity that causes inflammation.
Another study is investigating the use of rituximab, a monoclonal antibody against B cells which make antibodies, to see if it decreases certain antibodies that cause the immune system to attack the nervous system.
Investigators are also determining if eculizumab is safe and effective in treating individuals with generalized myasthenia gravis who also receive various immunosuppressant drugs.
What is Calcitonin?
Calcitonin is a hormone involved in calcium regulation and bone metabolism.
What research is being done for Neurofibromatosis?
Several years ago, research teams located the exact position of the NF1 gene on chromosome 17.
The product of the NF1 gene is a large and complex protein called neurofibromin, which is primarily active in nervous cells as a regulator of cell division.
Intensive efforts have let to the identification of the NF2 gene on chromosome 22.
The NF2 gene product is a tumor-suppressor protein called merlin.
Ongoing research continues to discover additional genes that appear to play a role in NF-related tumor suppression or growth.
Other research is aimed at understanding how the genetic mutations that cause the benign tumors of NF1 also cause nerve cells and nerve networks to form abnormally during fetal development, which later result in the learning disabilities and cognitive deficits of children with the disorder.
Additional research is aimed at understanding the natural history of tumors in NF2 and determining possible factors that may regular their growth patterns.
The Interinstitute Medical Genetics Research Program at the NIH Clinical Center conducts NF2 family history research.
Using specimens from some of the families, scientists have isolated and sequenced the NF2 gene and have described two different patterns of clinical features in NF2 patients.
Investigators are continuing to study these patterns to see if they correspond to specific types of gene mutations.
How is celiac disease diagnosed?
Your doctor will provide you instructions about how to prepare for a biopsy.
Generally, no eating or drinking is allowed 8 hours before a biopsy.
Smoking and chewing gum are also prohibited during this time.
Tell your doctor about any health conditions you may have, especially heart and lung problems, diabetes, and allergies.
Also tell your doctor about any medicines you take.
You may be asked to stop taking them for a short time before and after the test.
What is the prognosis for Central Cord Syndrome?
The prognosis for central cord syndrome varies, but most people whose syndrome is caused by trauma have some recovery of neurological function.
Evaluation of abnormal signals on MRI images can help predict he likelihood that neurological recovery may occur naturally.
Those who receive medical intervention soon after their injury often have good outcomes.
Many people with the disorder recover substantial function after their initial injury, and the ability to walk is recovered in most cases, although some impairment may remain.
Improvement occurs first in the legs, then the bladder, and may be seen in the arms.
Hand function recovers last, if at all.
Recovery is generally better in younger patients, compared to those over the age of 50.
How often do I need to get my cholesterol checked?
The general recommendation is to get your cholesterol checked every 5 years.
Some people need to get their cholesterol checked more or less often.
Talk to your doctor about what's best for you.
How is TSC diagnosed?
Diagnosis of the disorder is based on a careful clinical exam in combination with computed tomography CT or magnetic resonance imaging MRI of the brain, which may show tubers in the brain, and an ultrasound of the heart, liver, and kidneys, which may show tumors in those organs.
Doctors should carefully examine the skin for the wide variety of skin features, the fingernails and toenails for ungual fibromas, the teeth and gums for dental pits and/or gum fibromas, and the eyes for retinal lesions.
A Wood's lamp or ultraviolet light may be used to locate the hypomelantic macules which are sometimes hard to see on infants and individuals with pale or fair skin.
Because of the wide variety of signs of TSC, it is best if a doctor experienced in the diagnosis of TSC evaluates a potential patient.
What happens during a depression screening?
The doctor will ask your teen questions about her feelings and behaviors.
The doctor may ask her how often she:
Q: How well does HPV vaccine work?
A: The HPV vaccine works extremely well.
Clinical trials showed the vaccines provided close to 100% protection against precancers and for HPV4, genital warts.
Since the vaccine was first recommended in 2006, there has been a 56% reduction in HPV infections among teen girls in the US, even with very low HPV vaccination rates.
Research has also shown that fewer teens are getting genital warts.
In other countries such as Australia where there is higher HPV vaccination coverage, HPV vaccine has also reduced the number of cases of precancers of the cervix in young women in that country.
Also, genital warts decreased dramatically in young women and men in Australia since the HPV vaccine was introduced.
What is the cost of stroke for our nation?
Stroke places a major health burden on our society in terms of mortality, morbidity and economic costs.
The National Stroke Association estimates stroke costs the U.S.
about $43 billion a year.
Direct costs for medical care and therapy average $28 billion a year.
The average cost per patient for the first 90 days after a stroke is $15,000 although 10 percent of those cases exceed $35,000.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Raynaud's?
Attacks often begin in one finger or toe and move to other fingers or toes.
Sometimes only one or two fingers or toes are affected.
Different areas may be affected at different times.
Why do I need to talk to the doctor?
Aneurysms usually grow slowly without any symptoms.
When aneurysms grow large enough to burst break open, they can cause dangerous bleeding inside the body and death.
What Is Tetralogy of Fallot?
To understand tetralogy of Fallot, it helps to know how a healthy heart works.
The Health Topics How the Heart Works article describes the structure and function of a healthy heart.
The article also has animations that show how your heart pumps blood and how your heart's electrical system works.
What is Cutaneous Ewing sarcoma?
Cutaneous Ewing sarcoma is a soft tissue tumor in the skin or subcutaneous tissue that seems to behave as a less-aggressive tumor than primary bone or soft tissue Ewing sarcoma.
Can Paget's Disease Be Treated?
Yes, Paget's disease can be treated.
Finding and treating Paget's disease early is best to prevent complications.
The Food and Drug Administration FDA has approved several drugs to treat the disease.
Doctors most often prescribe drugs called bisphosphonates.
These help reduce bone pain and stop or slow down the progress of the disease.
What research is being done for Meningitis and Encephalitis?
The NINDS supports and conducts research on infections and diseases of the brain and nervous system including encephalitis and meningitis.
Much of this research is aimed at learning more about the causes, prevention, and treatment of these disorders.
What is Hepatic steatosis?
Hepatic steatosis is the fatty degeneration of the liver caused by a high concentration of liver enzymes.
Is there any treatment for Cerebro-Oculo-Facio-Skeletal?
Treatment is supportive and symptomatic.
Individuals with the disorder often require tube feeding.
Because COFS is genetic, genetic counseling is available.
Who is at risk from CO poisoning?
All people and animals are at risk for CO poisoning.
Certain groups - unborn babies, infants, and people with chronic heart disease, anemia, or respiratory problems - are more susceptible to its effects.
Each year, more than 400 Americans die from unintentional CO poisoning, more than 20,000 visit the emergency room and more than 4,000 are hospitalized due to CO poisoning.
Fatality is highest among Americans 65 and older.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to break.
What is Temporal arteritis?
Temporal arteritis is a common chronic inflammatory disease of large blood vessels occurring primarily in people 50 and older.
What about beverages?
While drinking beverages is important to good health, they don't help you feel full and satisfied the way food does.
Choose drinks without calories, like water, sparkling water, or unsweetened iced tea.
Drink fat-free or low-fat milk instead of 2% or whole milk.
What is Your weight?
Your weight is the result of many factors.
What is Dravet Syndrome?
Dravet syndrome, also called severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy SMEI, is a severe form of epilepsy.
It appears during the first year of life with frequent febrile seizures - fever-related seizures that, by definition, are rare beyond age 5.
Later, other types of seizures typically arise, including myoclonus involuntary muscle spasms.
Status epilepticus - a state of continuous seizure requiring emergency medical care - also may occur.
Children with Dravet syndrome typically experience poor development of language and motor skills, hyperactivity, and difficulty relating to others.
What should you expect before Echocardiography?
Echocardiography echo is done in a doctor's office or a hospital.
No special preparations are needed for most types of echo.
You usually can eat, drink, and take any medicines as you normally would.
Who can get CRPS?
Anyone can get CRPS.
It can strike at any age and affects both men and women, although it is much more common in women.
The average age of affected individuals is about age 40.
CRPS is rare in the elderly.
Children do not get it before age 5 and only very rarely before age 10, but it is not uncommon in teenagers.
What is Oseltamivir Tamiflu?
Oseltamivir Tamiflu is an antiviral drug that can be used to treat flu.
What should you expect before Ventricular Assist Device Surgery?
You can ask to see what the device looks like and how it will be attached inside your body.
You also may meet with someone who already has a VAD.
This person can answer questions about what it feels like to have a VAD and how to live with the device.
What should you expect before Stress Testing?
For some stress tests, you can't drink coffee or other caffeinated drinks for a day before the test.
Certain over-the-counter or prescription medicines also may interfere with some stress tests.
Ask your doctor whether you need to avoid certain drinks or food or change how you take your medicine before the test.
How do genes affect obesity?
However genes do not always predict future health.
Genes and behavior may both be needed for a person to be overweight.
In some cases multiple genes may increase one's susceptibility for obesity and require outside factors; such as abundant food supply or little physical activity.
What is the prognosis for Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome?
The prognosis for individuals with LEMS varies.
Those with LEMS not associated with malignancy have a benign overall prognosis.
Generally the presence of cancer determines the prognosis.
What is the prognosis for Reye's Syndrome?
Recovery from RS is directly related to the severity of the swelling of the brain.
Some people recover completely, while others may sustain varying degrees of brain damage.
Those cases in which the disorder progresses rapidly and the patient lapses into a coma have a poorer prognosis than those with a less severe course.
Statistics indicate that when RS is diagnosed and treated in its early stages, chances of recovery are excellent.
When diagnosis and treatment are delayed, the chances for successful recovery and survival are severely reduced.
Unless RS is diagnosed and treated successfully, death is common, often within a few days.
What causes CNS tumors?
Researchers really don't know why primary brain and spinal cord tumors develop.
Possible causes under investigation include viruses, defective genes, exposure to certain chemicals and other hazardous materials, and immune system disorders.
Although smoking, alcohol consumption, and certain dietary habits are associated with some types of cancers, they have not been linked to primary CNS tumors.
Who Is at Risk for Overweight and Obesity?
Overweight and obesity affect Americans of all ages, sexes, and racial/ethnic groups.
This serious health problem has been growing over the last 30 years.
What is the inguinal canal?
The inguinal canal is a passage through the lower abdominal wall.
People have two inguinal canals - one on each side of the lower abdomen.
In males, the spermatic cords pass through the inguinal canals and connect to the testicles in the scrotum - the sac around the testicles.
The spermatic cords contain blood vessels, nerves, and a duct, called the spermatic duct, that carries sperm from the testicles to the penis.
In females, the round ligaments, which support the uterus, pass through the inguinal canals.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing.
What is Attention Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder?
Attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder ADHD is a neurobehavioral disorder that affects 3-5 percent of all American children.
It interferes with a person's ability to stay on a task and to exercise age-appropriate inhibition cognitive alone or both cognitive and behavioral.
Some of the warning signs of ADHD include failure to listen to instructions, inability to organize oneself and school work, fidgeting with hands and feet, talking too much, leaving projects, chores and homework unfinished, and having trouble paying attention to and responding to details.
There are several types of ADHD: a predominantly inattentive subtype, a predominantly hyperactive-impulsive subtype, and a combined subtype.
ADHD is usually diagnosed in childhood, although the condition can continue into the adult years.
What is Paget's disease?
Paget's disease is a chronic disorder that can result in enlarged and misshapen bones.
Isn't Polio Gone?
Polio, or poliomyelitis, is an infectious viral disease that can strike at any age and affects a person's nervous system.
In the late 1940s to the early 1950s, in the U.
S.
alone, polio crippled around 35,000 people each year -- making it one of the most feared diseases of the 20th century.
Yet, thanks to a massive vaccination effort, by 1979 the country became polio free.
For more about polio and how it was eradicated in the U.S., see 'A Polio-Free U.S.
Thanks to Vaccine Efforts,' http://www.cdc.gov/Features/PolioFacts/.
The eradication of polio from the western hemisphere of the world is one of the most significant public health achievements of all time.
But victory over polio cannot be claimed until the entire world is made safe from the disease and this commitment has been made by the global public health community.
Does Anything Increase the Chances of Having a Genetic Disease?
Several factors increase the likelihood that a person will inherit an alteration in a gene.
If you are concerned about your risk - or the risk to your children or future children - you should talk to your health care provider or a genetic counselor.
What research is being done for Familial Periodic Paralyses?
The NINDS conducts and supports research on neuromuscular disorders such as the familial periodic paralyses.
These studies are aimed at increasing knowledge about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
What is Hirschsprung disease HD?
Hirschsprung* disease HD is a disease of the large intestine that causes severe constipation or intestinal obstruction.
Constipation means stool moves through the intestines slower than usual.
Bowel movements occur less often than normal and stools are difficult to pass.
Some children with HD can't pass stool at all, which can result in the complete blockage of the intestines, a condition called intestinal obstruction.
People with HD are born with it and are usually diagnosed when they are infants.
Less severe cases are sometimes diagnosed when a child is older.
An HD diagnosis in an adult is rare.
How Can Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia Be Prevented?
Usually, within about 24 hours of your taking this medicine, the baby's lungs start making enough surfactant.
This will reduce the infant's risk of respiratory distress syndrome RDS, which can lead to bronchopulmonary dysplasia BPD.
What is Stage 0is?
Stage 0is is a flat tumor on the tissue lining the inside of the renal pelvis or ureter.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
Are there any policies about owning live poultry?
Rules and regulations vary by city, county, and state ordinances, so check with your local government to determine rules and regulations about owning live poultry.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
What are the symptoms and complications of gallstones?
Gallbladder attacks usually stop when gallstones move and no longer block the bile ducts.
However, if any of the bile ducts remain blocked for more than a few hours, complications can occur.
Complications include infl ammation, or swelling, of the gallbladder and severe damage or infection of the gallbladder, bile ducts, or liver.
What Are the Risks of Cardioversion?
Cardioversion can dislodge blood clots in the heart.
These clots can travel to organs and tissues in the body and cause a stroke or other problems.
Taking anticlotting medicines before and after cardioversion can reduce this risk.
What is Physical activity also?
Physical activity also is an important part of a heart healthy lifestyle.
How is proctitis diagnosed?
Flexible sigmoidoscopy and colonoscopy.
These tests are used to help diagnose Crohn's disease.
The tests are similar, but colonoscopy is used to view the entire colon and rectum, while flexible sigmoidoscopy is used to view just the lower colon and rectum.
For both tests, a health care provider will provide written bowel prep instructions to follow at home before the test.
The person may be asked to follow a clear liquid diet for 1 to 3 days before the test.
A laxative may be required the night before the test.
One or more enemas may be required the night before and about 2 hours before the test.
What should you expect during Cardiac Rehabilitation?
Support from your family can help make cardiac rehab easier.
For example, family members can help you plan healthy meals and be physically active.
The healthy lifestyle changes you learn during cardiac rehab can benefit your entire family.
What is The Friends of NCBDDD?
The Friends of NCBDDD is a coalition of government and private sector organizations who work together to enhance the mission and activities of the National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities.
What is Arthritis?
Arthritis is a general term for conditions that affect the joints and surrounding tissues.
What is Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's Disease?
Deep brain stimulation DBS is a surgical procedure used to treat several disabling neurological symptoms - most commonly the debilitating motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease PD, such as tremor, rigidity, stiffness, slowed movement, and walking problems.
The procedure is also used to treat essential tremor and dystonia.
At present, the procedure is used only for individuals whose symptoms cannot be adequately controlled with medications.
However, only individuals who improve to some degree after taking medication for Parkinson's benefit from DBS.
A variety of conditions may mimic PD but do not respond to medications or DBS.
DBS uses a surgically implanted, battery-operated medical device called an implantable pulse generator IPG - similar to a heart pacemaker and approximately the size of a stopwatch - to deliver electrical stimulation to specific areas in the brain that control movement, thus blocking the abnormal nerve signals that cause PD symptoms.
What should you expect after Bronchoscopy?
You may have a chest x ray if your doctor took a sample of lung tissue.
This test will check for a pneumothorax and bleeding.
A pneumothorax is a condition in which air collects in the space around the lungs.
This can cause one or both lungs to collapse.
Does CDC recommend one vaccine above another for people 65 and older?
CDC and the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ACIP recommends flu vaccination as the first and most important step in protecting against the flu.
What is Rectocele?
Rectocele is a condition that causes the rectum to protrude through the vagina.
What is Stage 0 rectal cancer?
Stage 0 rectal cancer is the most superficial of all rectal lesions and is limited to the mucosa without invasion of the lamina propria.
What research is being done for Myasthenia Gravis?
Scientists are evaluating new and improving current treatments for myasthenia gravis.
Different drugs are being tested, either alone or in combination with existing drug therapies, to see if they are effective in treating the disorder.
One study seeks to understand the molecular basis of synaptic transmission in the nervous system.
Thymectomy is being studied in individuals who do not have thymoma, to assess long-term benefit the surgery may have over medical therapy alone.
And investigators are examining the safety and efficacy of autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation to treat refractory and severe myasthenia gravis.
What is heme and what does it do?
Heme is a red pigment composed of iron linked to a chemical called protoporphyrin.
Heme has important functions in the body.
The largest amounts of heme are in the form of hemoglobin, found in red blood cells and bone marrow.
Hemoglobin carries oxygen from the lungs to all parts of the body.
In the liver, heme is a component of proteins that break down hormones, medications, and other chemicals and keep liver cells functioning normally.
Heme is an important part of nearly every cell in the body.
What is the prognosis for Wallenberg's Syndrome?
The outlook for someone with Wallenberg's syndrome depends upon the size and location of the area of the brain stem damaged by the stroke.
Some individuals may see a decrease in their symptoms within weeks or months.
Others may be left with significant neurological disabilities for years after the initial symptoms appeared.
With whom does FoodCORE partner?
To enhance and complement states' outbreak response capacity, FoodCORE works closely with other federal and state collaborative programs, including PulseNet, Environmental Health Specialists Network EHS-Net, FoodNet, CaliciNet, NoroSTAT, and the Integrated FoodSafety Centers of Excellence, which are centrally coordinated by CDC.
FoodCORE also works with the Association of Public Health Laboratories, U.S.
Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service FSIS, and the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration's Rapid Response Teams FDA-RRTs.
How Is Bronchitis Treated?
For more information about how to quit smoking, go to the Health Topics Smoking and Your Heart article and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Your Guide to a Healthy Heart.
Although these resources focus on heart health, they include general information about how to quit smoking.
Can I get Chagas disease from donating blood?
No.
You cannot contract Chagas disease from donating blood.
The needles are only used once and are discarded.
Sterile procedures and equipment are routine at blood banks.
Is there any treatment for Tardive Dyskinesia?
Treatment is highly individualized.
The first step is generally to stop or minimize the use of the neuroleptic drug, but this can be done only under close supervision of the physician.
However, for patients with a severe underlying condition this may not be a feasible option.
Replacing the neuroleptic drug with substitute drugs may help some individuals.
The only approved drug treatment for tardive dyskenesia is tetrabenazine, which is usually effective but can have side effects that need to be discussed prior to starting therapy.
Other drugs such as benzodiazepines, clozapine, or botulinum toxin injections also may be tried.
Is there a vaccine for canine influenza?
Yes, an approved vaccine is available.
How is viral gastroenteritis transmitted?
Viral gastroenteritis is transmitted from person to person.
Viruses are present in the stool and vomit of people who are infected.
Infected people may contaminate surfaces, objects, food, and drinks with viruses, especially if they do not wash their hands thoroughly after using the bathroom.
When an infected person with unwashed hands shakes hands with or touches another person, the virus can spread.
When an infected person vomits, the virus can become airborne.
How is hepatitis A spread?
Hepatitis A is spread primarily through food or water contaminated by feces from an infected person.
Rarely, it spreads through contact with infected blood.
Is there any treatment for Behcet's Disease?
Treatment for Behcet's disease is symptomatic and supportive.
Medication may be prescribed to reduce inflammation and/or regulate the immune system.
Immunosuppressive therapy may be considered.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Sickle Cell Anemia?
The signs and symptoms of sickle cell anemia vary.
Some people have mild symptoms.
Others have very severe symptoms and often are hospitalized for treatment.
What is A carotid endarterectomy?
A carotid endarterectomy is a surgical procedure in which a doctor removes fatty deposits blocking one of the two carotid arteries, the main supply of blood for the brain.
What are some of the things that hospitals are doing to prevent MRSA infections?
Use Contact Precautions when caring for patients with MRSA.
Contact Precautions include: Whenever possible, patients with MRSA will have a single room or will share a room with only someone else who also has MRSA.
How Can I Prevent Falls?
Buy a cordless phone to keep with you so that you don't have to rush to the phone when it rings and so that you can call for help if you fall.
How is BMI calculated and interpreted for children and teens?
3.
Review the calculated BMI-for-age percentile and results.
The BMI-for-age percentile is used to interpret the BMI number because BMI is both age-and sex-specific for children and teens.
These criteria are different from those used to interpret BMI for adults - which do not take into account age or sex.
Age and sex are considered for children and teens for two reasons:
How does the screening test protect people from Chagas disease?
The blood screening test allows blood banks to destroy potentially infectious blood before it is given to anyone.
Screening will prevent those who are found to have the disease from donating blood again.
How Can Broken Heart Syndrome Be Prevented?
Also, some of the ways people cope with stress - such as drinking, smoking, or overeating - aren't healthy.
Learning to manage stress includes adopting healthy habits that will keep your stress levels low and make it easier to deal with stress when it does happen.
A healthy lifestyle includes following a healthy diet, being physically active, maintaining a healthy weight, and quitting smoking.
What is Hepatitis C?
Hepatitis C is a contagious liver disease that ranges in severity from a mild illness lasting a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness that attacks the liver.
What are the symptoms of hemorrhoids?
Blood clots may form in external hemorrhoids.
A blood clot in a vein is called a thrombosis.
Thrombosed external hemorrhoids cause bleeding, painful swelling, or a hard lump around the anus.
When the blood clot dissolves, extra skin is left behind.
This skin can become irritated or itch.
What is Bradycardia?
Bradycardia is a heartbeat that is slower than normal.
Q: What other ways someone could get HPV?
A: It's not very common, but sometimes a pregnant woman with HPV can pass it to her baby during delivery.
In these cases, the child can develop recurrent respiratory papillomatosis RRP, a rare condition where warts caused by HPV similar to genital warts grow in the throat.
.
What is Annual vaccination?
Annual vaccination is the most important measure to prevent seasonal influenza infection.
How is autism diagnosed?
A comprehensive evaluation requires a multidisciplinary team, including a psychologist, neurologist, psychiatrist, speech therapist, and other professionals who diagnose children with ASDs.
The team members will conduct a thorough neurological assessment and in-depth cognitive and language testing.
Because hearing problems can cause behaviors that could be mistaken for an ASD, children with delayed speech development should also have their hearing tested.
What is Neurosarcoidosis?
Neurosarcoidosis is a manifestation of sarcoidosis in the nervous system.
Sarcoidosis is a chronic inflammatory disorder that typically occurs in adults between 20 and 40 years of age and primarily affects the lungs, but can also impact almost every other organ and system in the body.
Neurosarcoidosis is characterized by inflammation and abnormal cell deposits in any part of the nervous system - the brain, spinal cord, or peripheral nerves.
It most commonly occurs in the cranial and facial nerves, the hypothalamus a specific area of the brain, and the pituitary gland.
It is estimated to develop in 5 to 15 percent of those individuals who have sarcoidosis.
Weakness of the facial muscles on one side of the face Bell's palsy is a common symptom of neurosarcoidosis.
The optic and auditory nerves can also become involved, causing vision and hearing impairments.
It can cause headache, seizures, memory loss, hallucinations, irritability, agitation, and changes in mood and behavior.
Neurosarcoidosis can appear in an acute, explosive fashion or start as a slow chronic illness.
Because neurosarcoidosis manifests in many different ways, a diagnosis may be difficult and delayed.
How Is Deep Vein Thrombosis Treated?
Doctors treat deep vein thrombosis DVT with medicines and other devices and therapies.
The main goals of treating DVT are to:
Is there any treatment for Vasculitis Syndromes of the Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems?
Treatment for a vasculitis syndrome depends upon the specific diagnosis.
Most of the syndromes respond well to steroid drugs, such as prednisolone.
Some may also require treatment with an immunosuppressive drug, such as cyclophosphamide.
When do symptoms appear?
Signs of NF2 may be present in childhood but are so subtle that they can be overlooked, especially in children who don't have a family history of the disorder.
Typically, symptoms of NF2 are noticed between 18 and 22 years of age.
The most frequent first symptom is hearing loss or ringing in the ears tinnitus.
Less often, the first visit to a doctor will be because of disturbances in balance, visual impairment such as vision loss from cataracts, weakness in an arm or leg, seizures, or skin tumors.
What is hemochromatosis?
Hemochromatosis is the most common form of iron overload disease.
Too much iron in the body causes hemochromatosis.
Iron is important because it is part of hemoglobin, a molecule in the blood that transports oxygen from the lungs to all body tissues.
However, too much iron in the body leads to iron overload - a buildup of extra iron that, without treatment, can damage organs such as the liver, heart, and pancreas; endocrine glands; and joints.
What is Eye inflammation?
Eye inflammation is a potentially severe complication that commonly occurs in children with oligoarthritis but can also be seen in other types of juvenile arthritis.
How Can Hemolytic Anemia Be Prevented?
Prompt and proper prenatal care can help you avoid the problems of Rh incompatibility .
This condition can occur during pregnancy if a woman has Rh-negative blood and her baby has Rh-positive blood.
Rh-negative and Rh-positive refer to whether your blood has Rh factor.
Rh factor is a protein on red blood cells.
What is primary biliary cirrhosis?
The bile ducts carry a fluid called bile from the liver to the gallbladder, where it is stored.
When food enters the stomach after a meal, the gallbladder contracts, and the bile ducts carry bile to the duodenum, the first part of the small intestine, for use in digestion.
The liver makes bile, which is made up of bile acids, cholesterol, fats, and fluids.
Bile helps the body absorb fats, cholesterol, and fat-soluble vitamins.
Bile also carries cholesterol, toxins, and waste products to the intestines, where the body removes them.
When chronic inflammation, or swelling, damages the bile ducts, bile and toxic wastes build up in the liver, damaging liver tissue.
What is breast cancer?
About 1 in 8 women born today in the United States will get breast cancer.
After skin cancer, breast cancer is the most common kind of cancer in women.
The good news is that many people can survive breast cancer if it's found and treated early.
What does recovery from ERCP involve?
After ERCP, patients are moved to a recovery room where they wait for about an hour for the sedatives to wear off.
Patients may not remember conversations with health care staff, as the sedatives reduce memory of events during and after the procedure.
During this time, patients may feel bloated or nauseous.
Patients may also have a sore throat, which can last a day or two.
What is the gastrointestinal GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus - the opening through which stool leaves the body.
The body digests food using the movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes.
Cyclic vomiting syndrome affects the upper GI tract, which includes the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and duodenum, the first part of the small intestine.
The esophagus is the muscular tube that carries food and liquids from the mouth to the stomach.
The stomach slowly pumps the food and liquids through the duodenum and into the rest of the small intestine, which absorbs nutrients from food particles.
This process is automatic and people are usually not aware of it, though people sometimes feel food in their esophagus when they swallow something too large, try to eat too quickly, or drink hot or cold liquids.
What is Hemicrania Continua?
Hemicrania continua is a chronic and persistent form of headache marked by continuous pain that varies in severity, always occurs on the same side of the face and head, and is superimposed with additional debilitating symptoms.
on the continuous but fluctuating pain are occasional attacks of more severe pain.
A small percentage of individuals with hemicrania continua have bilateral pain, or pain on both sides of the head.
A headache is considered hemicrania continua if the person has had a one-sided daily or continuous headache of moderate intensity with occasional short, piercing head pain for more than 3 months without shifting sides or pain-free periods.
The headache must also be completely responsive to treatment with the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug drug indomethacin.
It must have at least one of the following symptoms: eye redness and/or tearing, nasal congestion and/or runny nose, ptosis drooping eyelid and miosis contracture of the iris.
Occasionally, individuals will also have forehead sweating and migraine symptoms, such as throbbing pain, nausea and/or vomiting, or sensitivity to light and sound.
The disorder has two forms: chronic, with daily headaches, and remitting, in which headaches may occur for a period as long as 6 months and are followed by a pain-free period of weeks to months until the pain returns.
Most patients experience attacks of increased pain three to five times per 24-hour cycle.
This disorder is more common in women than in men.
Physical exertion and alcohol use may increase the severity of headache pain in some patients.
The cause of this disorder is unknown.
What is the prognosis for Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease?
Onset of symptoms of CMT is most often in adolescence or early adulthood, however presentation may be delayed until mid-adulthood.
Progression of symptoms is very gradual.
The degeneration of motor nerves results in muscle weakness and atrophy in the extremities arms, legs, hands, or feet, and the degeneration of sensory nerves results in a reduced ability to feel heat, cold, and pain.
There are many forms of CMT disease.
The severity of symptoms may vary greatly among individuals and some people may never realize they have the disorder.
CMT is not fatal and people with most forms of CMT have a normal life expectancy.
What is known about Alzheimer's Disease?
Scientists are finding more evidence that some of the risk factors for heart disease and stroke, such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and low levels of the vitamin folate may also increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease.
What Does Body Mass Index Mean?
Although BMI can be used for most men and women, it does have some limits.
It may overestimate body fat in athletes and others who have a muscular build.
BMI also may underestimate body fat in older people and others who have lost muscle.
What is Headache treatment?
Headache treatment is a partnership between you and your doctor, and honest communication is essential.
Do symptoms of autism change over time?
For many children, symptoms improve with treatment and with age.
Children whose language skills regress early in life - before the age of 3 - appear to have a higher than normal risk of developing epilepsy or seizure-like brain activity.
During adolescence, some children with an ASD may become depressed or experience behavioral problems, and their treatment may need some modification as they transition to adulthood.
People with an ASD usually continue to need services and supports as they get older, but many are able to work successfully and live independently or within a supportive environment.
What research is being done for Hemicrania Continua?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH support research related to hemicrania continua through grants to medical research institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on understanding hemicrania continua in order to finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure the disorder.
What Causes Heart Valve Disease?
The cause of congenital heart valve disease isn't known.
It occurs before birth as the heart is forming.
Congenital heart valve disease can occur alone or with other types of congenital heart defects.
Is there any treatment for Cerebral Aneurysms?
For unruptured aneurysms, treatment may be recommended for large or irregularly-shaped aneurysms or for those causing symptoms.
Emergency treatment for individuals with a ruptured cerebral aneurysm may be required to restore deteriorating respiration and reduce abnormally high pressure within the brain.
Treatment is necessary to prevent the aneurysm from rupturing again.
Surgical treatment prevents repeat aneurysm rupture by placing a metal clip at the base of the aneurysm.
Individuals for whom surgery is considered too risky may be treated by inserting the tip of a catheter into an artery in the groin and advancing it through the blood stream to the site of the aneurysm, where it is used to insert metal coils that induce clot formation within the aneurysm.
What research is being done for Shingles?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH conduct shingles research in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Current research is aimed at finding new methods for treating shingles and its complications.
What is Leptospirosis?
Leptospirosis is a disease caused by bacteria.
Is there any treatment for Parry-Romberg?
There is no cure and there are no treatments that can stop the progression of Parry-Romberg syndrome.
Reconstructive or microvascular surgery may be needed to repair wasted tissue.
The timing of surgical intervention is generally agreed to be the best following exhaustion of the disease course and completion of facial growth.
Most surgeons will recommend a waiting period of one or two years before proceeding with reconstruction.
Muscle or bone grafts may also be helpful.
Other treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
Who funded the work described in this article?
Work with the reconstructed 1918 virus was conducted at and supported by CDC.
The U.S.
Department of Agriculture USDA, the National Institutes of Health NIH, and the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology AFIP all provided support for many other aspects of this research.
What research is being done for Niemann-Pick Disease?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, a part of the National Institutes of Health NIH, conducts research about Niemann-Pick disease in laboratories at the NIH and also supports additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country.
Investigators at the NINDS have identified two different genes that, when defective, contribute to Niemann-Pick disease types C and D.
How is celiac disease diagnosed?
Recognizing celiac disease can be difficult because some of its symptoms are similar to those of other diseases.
Celiac disease can be confused with irritable bowel syndrome, iron-deficiency anemia caused by menstrual blood loss, inflammatory bowel disease, diverticulitis, intestinal infections, and chronic fatigue syndrome.
As a result, celiac disease has long been underdiagnosed or misdiagnosed.
As doctors become more aware of the many varied symptoms of the disease and reliable blood tests become more available, diagnosis rates are increasing.
What is HOLOPROSENCEPHALY?
HOLOPROSENCEPHALY is a disorder characterized by the failure of the prosencephalon the forebrain of the embryo to develop.
What is a stroke?
A stroke is sometimes called a 'brain attack.' A stroke happens when blood flow to the brain is blocked, which can hurt or kill cells in the brain.
What Are the Risks of Pacemaker Surgery?
Swelling, bleeding, bruising, or infection in the area where the pacemaker was placed.
What is Losing weight?
Losing weight is the first step.
What is Cigarette smoking?
Cigarette smoking is the most powerful modifiable stroke risk factor.
What research is being done for Bell's Palsy?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts and supports an extensive research program of basic science to increase understanding of how the nervous system works and what causes the system to sometimes go awry, leading to dysfunction.
Part of this research program focuses on learning more about the circumstances that lead to nerve damage and the conditions that cause injuries and damage to nerves.
Knowledge gained from this research may help scientists find the definitive cause of Bell's palsy, leading to the discovery of new effective treatments for the disorder.
Other NINDS-supported research is aimed at developing methods to repair damaged nerves and restore full use and strength to injured areas, and finding ways to prevent nerve damage and injuries from occurring.
What are Nearly 1 in 5 teen births?
Nearly 1 in 5 teen births is a repeat birth.
What immediate treatments are available?
At the hospital or trauma center, realigning the spine using a rigid brace or axial traction using a mechanical force to stretch the spine and relieve pressure on the spinal cord is usually done as soon as possible to stabilize the spine and prevent additional damage.
Fractured vertebrae, bone fragments, herniated discs, or other objects compressing the spinal column may need to be surgically removed.
Spinal decompression surgery to relieve pressure within the spinal column also may be necessary in the days after injury.
Results of a neurosurgical study show that, in some cases, earlier surgery is associated with better functional recovery.
What causes intestinal pseudo-obstruction?
Some people have duplications or deletions of genetic material in the FLNA gene.
Researchers believe that these genetic changes may impair the function of a protein, causing problems with the nerve cells in the intestines.
As a result, the nerves cannot work with the intestinal muscles to produce normal contractions that move food, fluid, and air through the digestive tract.
Also, these genetic changes may account for some of the other signs and symptoms that can occur with intestinal pseudo-obstruction, such as bladder symptoms and muscle weakness.
What should people do if they think they have appendicitis?
Appendicitis is a medical emergency that requires immediate care.
People who think they have appendicitis should see a health care provider or go to the emergency room right away.
Swift diagnosis and treatment reduce the chances the appendix will burst and improve recovery time.
What are critical congenital heart defects?
The seven defects classified as critical congenital heart defects CCHDs are hypoplastic left heart syndrome, pulmonary atresia with intact septum, tetralogy of Fallot, total anomalous pulmonary venous return, transposition of the great arteries, tricuspid atresia, and truncus arteriosus.
Babies with one these CCHDs are at significant risk for death or disability if their heart defect is not diagnosed and treated soon after birth.
These seven CCHDs among some babies potentially can be detected using pulse oximetry screening, which is a test to determine the amount of oxygen in the blood and pulse rate.
Certain hospitals routinely screen all newborns using pulse oximetry screening.
However, pulse oximetry screening is not currently included in newborn screening in most states.
If the chance of the diseases is so low, why do I need the vaccine?
It is true that vaccination has enabled us to reduce measles and most other vaccine-preventable diseases to very low levels in the United States.
However, measles is still very common - even epidemic - in other parts of the world.
Visitors to our country and unvaccinated U.S.
travelers returning from other countries can unknowingly bring import measles into the United States.
Since the virus is highly contagious, such imported cases can quickly spread, causing outbreaks or epidemics among unvaccinated people and under-vaccinated communities.
What is Coffin Lowry Syndrome?
Coffin-Lowry syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by craniofacial head and facial and skeletal abnormalities, mental retardation, short stature, and hypotonia.
Characteristic facial features may include an underdeveloped upper jaw bone maxillary hypoplasia, a broad nose, protruding nostrils nares, an abnormally prominent brow, down-slanting eyelid folds palpebral fissures, widely spaced eyes hypertelorism, large low-set ears, and unusually thick eyebrows.
Skeletal abnormalities may include abnormal front-to-back and side-to-side curvature of the spine kyphoscoliosis, unusual prominence of the breastbone pigeon chest, or pectus carinatum, dental abnormalities, and short, hyperextensible, tapered fingers.
Other features may include feeding and respiratory problems, developmental delay, mental retardation, hearing impairment, awkward gait, stimulus-induced drop episodes, and heart and kidney involvement.
The disorder affects males and females in equal numbers, but symptoms are usually more severe in males.
The disorder is caused by a defective gene, RSK2, which is found in 1996 on the X chromosome Xp22.2-p22.1.
Thus, the syndrome is typically more severe in males because males have only one X chromosome, while females have two.
It is unclear how changes mutations in the DNA structure of the gene lead to the clinical findings.
Who Gets Paget's Disease?
Uncommon in people under age 40, Paget's disease grows more common with age.
The condition is more common in people of Anglo-Saxon descent in certain geographical areas including England, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, and Western Europe.
It is not common in Scandinavia, China, Japan, or India.
How is Crohn's disease treated?
relieve symptoms such as abdominal pain, diarrhea, and rectal bleeding.
Are there prenatal tests for the neurofibromatoses?
Clinical genetic testing can confirm the presence of a mutation in the NF1 gene.
Prenatal testing for the NF1 mutation is also possible using amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling procedures.
Genetic testing for the NF2 mutation is sometimes available, but is accurate only in about 65 percent of those individuals tested.
Prenatal or genetic testing for schwannomotosis currently does not exist.
What Causes Rh Incompatibility?
When you're pregnant, blood from your baby can cross into your bloodstream, especially during delivery.
If you're Rh-negative and your baby is Rh-positive, your body will react to the baby's blood as a foreign substance.
What is Tourette syndrome TS?
Tourette syndrome TS is a neurological disorder characterized by repetitive, stereotyped, involuntary movements and vocalizations called tics.
Can children and pregnant women take antiviral drugs?
Yes.
Children and pregnant women can take antiviral drugs.
Oseltamivir Tamiflu is approved for the treatment of influenza in persons aged 2 weeks and older.
Oseltamivir is also approved for the prevention of influenza in persons aged one year and older.
Zanamivir Relenza is approved for the treatment of influenza in persons aged 7 years and older; and for the prevention of influenza in persons aged 5 years and older.
How are these disorders diagnosed?
Genetic testing can help individuals who have a family history of lipid storage disease determine if they are carrying a mutated gene that causes the disorder.
Other genetic tests can determine if a fetus has the disorder or is a carrier of the defective gene.
Prenatal testing is usually done by chorionic villus sampling, in which a very small sample of the placenta is removed and tested during early pregnancy.
The sample, which contains the same DNA as the fetus, is removed by catheter or fine needle inserted through the cervix or by a fine needle inserted through the abdomen.
Results are usually available within 2 weeks.
What should you expect during Pacemaker Surgery?
First, your doctor will insert a needle into a large vein, usually near the shoulder opposite your dominant hand.
Your doctor will then use the needle to thread the pacemaker wires into the vein and to correctly place them in your heart.
What is heart disease?
When someone has CHD, the coronary arteries tubes that take blood to the heart are narrow or blocked.
This happens when cholesterol and fatty material, called plaque 'plak', build up inside the arteries.
What causes diverticulosis and diverticular disease?
Scientists are not certain what causes diverticulosis and diverticular disease.
For more than 50 years, the most widely accepted theory was that a low-fiber diet led to diverticulosis and diverticular disease.
Diverticulosis and diverticular disease were first noticed in the United States in the early 1900s, around the time processed foods were introduced into the American diet.
Consumption of processed foods greatly reduced Americans' fiber intake.
Diverticulosis and diverticular disease are common in Western and industrialized countries - particularly the United States, England, and Australia - where low-fiber diets are common.
The condition is rare in Asia and Africa, where most people eat high-fiber diets.
Two large studies also indicate that a low-fiber diet may increase the chance of developing diverticular disease.
What is Holoprosencephaly?
Holoprosencephaly is a disorder caused by the failure of the prosencephalon the embryonic forebrain to sufficiently divide into the double lobes of the cerebral hemispheres.
What should you expect after Cardiac CT?
After the cardiac CT scan is done, you'll be able to return to your normal activities.
A doctor who has experience with CT will provide your doctor with the results of your scan.
Your doctor will discuss the findings with you.
Who Is At Risk for Narcolepsy?
Researchers think that certain factors may work together to cause narcolepsy.
If these factors affect you, you may be at higher risk for the disorder.
For more information, go to What Causes Narcolepsy?.
How do I Discuss Sleep With Your Doctor?
Also write down how much you sleep each night, how alert and rested you feel in the morning, as well as how sleepy you feel at various times during the day.
Share the information in your sleep diary with your doctor.
You can find a sample sleep diary in the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Your Guide to Healthy Sleep..
How Is a Heart Attack Treated?
Once the diagnosis of a heart attack is confirmed or strongly suspected, doctors start treatments to try to promptly restore blood flow to the heart.
The two main treatments are clot-busting medicines and percutaneous coronary intervention PCI, sometimes referred to as coronary angioplasty, a procedure used to open blocked coronary arteries.
What is best medical therapy for stroke prevention?
NINDS health-related material is provided for information purposes only and does not necessarily represent endorsement by or an official position of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke or any other Federal agency.
Advice on the treatment or care of an individual patient should be obtained through consultation with a physician who has examined that patient or is familiar with that patient's medical history.
What are the different types of spina bifida?
Myelomeningocele, the fourth form, is the most severe and occurs when the spinal cord/neural elements are exposed through the opening in the spine, resulting in partial or complete paralysis of the parts of the body below the spinal opening.
The impairment may be so severe that the affected individual is unable to walk and may have bladder and bowel dysfunction.
How are variant influenza viruses spread?
Influenza viruses can be directly transmitted from pigs to people and from people to pigs.
When a human is infected with a flu virus that normally circulates in pigs, this virus is called a 'variant virus' because it is different from seasonal influenza viruses.
These infections have been most likely to occur when people are in close proximity to infected pigs, such as in pig barns and livestock exhibits housing pigs at fairs.
This is thought to happen mainly when an infected pig coughs or sneezes and droplets with influenza virus in them spread through the air.
If these droplets land in your nose or mouth, or are inhaled, you can be infected.
There also is some evidence that you might get infected by touching something that has virus on it and then touching your own mouth or nose.
A third way to possibly get infected is to inhale dust containing influenza virus.
Scientists aren't really sure which of these ways of spread is the most common.
What research is being done for Developmental Dyspraxia?
The NINDS supports research on developmental disorders, such as developmental dyspraxia, aimed at learning more about these disorders, and finding ways to prevent and treat them.
What is Kuru?
Kuru belongs to a class of infectious diseases called transmissible spongiform encephalopathies TSEs, also known as prion diseases.
The hallmark of a TSE disease is misshapen protein molecules that clump together and accumulate in brain tissue.
Scientists believe that misshapen prion proteins have the ability to change their shape and cause other proteins of the same type to also change shape.
Other TSEs include Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and fatal familial insomnia in humans, bovine spongiform encephalopathy in cattle also known as mad cow disease, scrapie in sheep and goats, and chronic wasting disease in deer and elk.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
How Is Osteoporosis Diagnosed in Men?
Osteoporosis can be effectively treated if it is detected before significant bone loss has occurred.
A medical workup to diagnose osteoporosis will include a complete medical history, x-rays, and urine and blood tests.
The doctor may also order a bone mineral density test.
This test can identify osteoporosis, determine your risk for fractures broken bones, and measure your response to osteoporosis treatment.
The most widely recognized BMD test is called a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, or DXA test.
It is painless a bit like having an x-ray, but with much less exposure to radiation.
It can measure bone density at your hip and spine.
What is Lesch-Nyhan syndrome LNS?
Lesch-Nyhan syndrome LNS is a rare, inherited disorder caused by a deficiency of the enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase HPRT.
Is it safe for pregnant women to get seasonal flu vaccine?
Yes.
The seasonal flu shot has been given safely to millions of pregnant women over many years.
Flu shots have not been shown to cause harm to pregnant women or their babies.
What Are the Risk Factors for Back Pain?
Although anyone can have back pain, a number of factors increase your risk.
They include:
What is genetic testing?
Genetic tests help doctors look for mutations changes in your genes.
If you have a mutation in certain genes, such as BRCA1 or BRCA2, you are more likely to get breast or ovarian cancer.
What are the symptoms of stroke?
Sudden numbness or weakness of face, arm or leg - especially on one side of the body.
What research is being done for Chiari Malformation?
The NINDS supports research on disorders of the brain and nervous system such as Chiari malformations.
The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them.
Current NINDS-funded research includes studies to better understand the genetic factors responsible for the malformation, and factors that influence the development, progression, and relief of symptoms among people with syringomyelia, including those with Chiari I malformations.
How is IBS in children diagnosed?
To diagnose IBS, a health care provider will conduct a physical exam and take a complete medical history.
The medical history will include questions about the child's symptoms, family members with GI disorders, recent infections, medications, and stressful events related to the onset of symptoms.
IBS is diagnosed when the physical exam does not show any cause for the child's symptoms and the child meets all of the following criteria:
What does You Should Know and Do thi Flu Season If You Are 65 Year and Older?
It has been recognized for many years that people 65 years and older are at greater risk of serious complications from the flu compared with young, healthy adults.
It's estimated that 90 percent of seasonal flu-related deaths and more than 60 percent of seasonal flu-related hospitalizations in the United States each year occur in people 65 years and older.
This is because human immune defenses become weaker with age.
So influenza can be a very serious disease for people 65 and older.
What Other Medical Problems Might Occur?
Arthritis.
The long bones in your leg may bow and press on nearby joints.
Enlarged bone may cause more wear and tear on joints.
In these cases, joint pain may be due to both Paget's disease and arthritis.
Is there any treatment for Arachnoiditis?
Arachnoiditis remains a difficult condition to treat, and long-term outcomes are unpredictable.
Most treatments for arachnoiditis are focused on pain relief and the improvement of symptoms that impair daily function.
A regimen of pain management, physiotheraphy, exercise, and psychotheraphy is often recommended.
Surgical intervention is controversial since the outcomes are generally poor and provide only short-term relief.
Clinical trials of steroid injections and electrical stimulation are needed to evaluate the efficacy of these treatments.
What is Your well-woman visit?
Your well-woman visit is a chance to focus on your overall health and wellness.
How do I Submit Specimens to CDC for Ehrlichiosis Testing?
Private citizens may not directly submit specimens to CDC for testing.
If you feel that diagnostic testing is necessary, consult your healthcare provider or state health department.
What is Echocardiography echo?
Echocardiography echo is a painless test that uses sound waves to create a moving picture of your baby's heart.
How common are Chiari malformations?
In the past, it was estimated that the condition occurs in about one in every 1,000 births.
However, the increased use of diagnostic imaging has shown that CM may be much more common.
Complicating this estimation is the fact that some children who are born with the condition may not show symptoms until adolescence or adulthood, if at all.
CMs occur more often in women than in men and Type II malformations are more prevalent in certain groups, including people of Celtic descent.
What is Bevacizumab?
Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody that binds to a protein called vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF and may prevent the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow.
1.
What does FASDs mean?
C Federation of American Science Disorders.
How Can Thrombocytopenia Be Prevented?
Talk with your doctor about getting vaccinated for viruses that can affect your platelets.
You may need vaccines for mumps, measles, rubella, and chickenpox.
You may want to have your child vaccinated for these viruses as well.
Talk with your child's doctor about these vaccines.
What is Abdominal surgery?
Abdominal surgery is the most frequent cause of abdominal adhesions.
What is Cutaneous allodynia?
Cutaneous allodynia is the feeling of pain or unpleasant sensations in response to normally nonpainful stimuli, such as light touch
What is Probably the most well-known?
Probably the most well-known is an outbreak of 'swine flu' among soldiers in Fort Dix, New Jersey in 1976.
What is Cerebral Palsy?
The term cerebral palsy refers to any one of a number of neurological disorders that appear in infancy or early childhood and permanently affect body movement and muscle coordination but don't worsen over time.
Even though cerebral palsy affects muscle movement, it isn't caused by problems in the muscles or nerves.
It is caused by abnormalities in parts of the brain that control muscle movements.
The majority of children with cerebral palsy are born with it, although it may not be detected until months or years later.
The early signs of cerebral palsy usually appear before a child reaches 3 years of age.
The most common are a lack of muscle coordination when performing voluntary movements ataxia; stiff or tight muscles and exaggerated reflexes spasticity; walking with one foot or leg dragging; walking on the toes, a crouched gait, or a 'scissored' gait; and muscle tone that is either too stiff or too floppy.
A small number of children have cerebral palsy as the result of brain damage in the first few months or years of life, brain infections such as bacterial meningitis or viral encephalitis, or head injury from a motor vehicle accident, a fall, or child abuse.
Am I at risk?
Some older adults also have vision problems or other medical conditions that can make a fall more likely.
For example, a stroke can affect your balance and make you more likely to fall.
Who Has Rheumatoid Arthritis?
According to the National Arthritis Data Workgroup, the actual number of new cases of rheumatoid arthritis is lower than previous estimates because of changes in the classification for the condition, as cited in Helmick CG, Felson DT, Lawrence RC, Gabriel S, Hirsch R, Kwoh CK, Liang MH, Kremers HM, Mayes MD, Merkel PA, Pillemer SR, Reveille JD, Stone JH, for the National Arthritis Data Workgroup.
Estimates of the Prevalence of Arthritis and Other Rheumatic Conditions in the United States.
Part I.
Arthritis Rheum 2008;581:15-25.
What is Biosafety Level 3 enhanced? What are the specific enhancements used for work with the 1918 strain of influenza?
A Biosafety Level 3 facility with specific enhancements includes primary safety cabinets, isolation chambers, gloves and gowns and secondary facility construction, HEPA filtration treatment of exhaust air barriers to protect laboratory workers and the public from accidental exposure.
The specific additional enhanced procedures used for work with the 1918 strain include:
How is Menetrier's disease treated?
Treatment may include medications, IV protein, blood transfusions, and surgery.
What Causes Lymphocytopenia?
Many diseases, conditions, and factors can lead to a low lymphocyte count.
These conditions can be acquired or inherited.
Acquired means you aren't born with the condition, but you develop it.
Inherited means your parents passed the gene for the condition on to you.
How is the bat influenza virus different from other influenza viruses?
The bat influenza virus discovered in Guatemala is very different from other influenza viruses in humans and animals.
All influenza A viruses have hemagglutinin HA surface proteins, and until the discovery of this virus, there were only 16 different classes or 'subtypes' of HA proteins known to exist in nature.
This new bat virus is distinct enough from those pre-existing subtypes that CDC scientists have classified it as a new subtype, denoted as 'H17'.
The other surface protein-coding gene of the virus, neuraminidase NA, is extraordinarily different from that of known influenza viruses, as well.
It is possible this gene came from ancient bat influenza viruses that are extinct or yet to be discovered.
For additional information on influenza virus biology and pictures of influenza viruses, see Influenza Flu Viruses and Images of Influenza Viruses.
How is diverticulitis treated?
A doctor may prescribe antibiotics and recommend following a liquid diet.
Most people get better with this treatment.
Some people may need surgery and other treatments.
Is there any treatment for Occipital Neuralgia?
Treatment is generally symptomatic and includes massage and rest.
In some cases, antidepressants may be used when the pain is particularly severe.
Other treatments may include local nerve blocks and injections of steroids directly into the affected area.
What should you expect after an Electrocardiogram?
After an electrocardiogram EKG, the nurse or technician will remove the electrodes soft patches from your skin.
You may develop a rash or redness where the EKG patches were attached.
This mild rash often goes away without treatment.
How does a person prepare for an upper gastrointestinal series?
A person prepares for an upper GI series by.
What do I ask the doctor?
Visiting the doctor can be stressful.
It helps to have questions written down before your appointment.
Print this list of questions, and take it with you the next time you visit your doctor or midwife.
Who Is at Risk for Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura?
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura TTP is a rare disorder.
Most cases of TTP are acquired.
Acquired TTP mostly occurs in adults, but it can affect children.
The condition occurs more often in women and in Black people than in other groups.
How Is Mitral Valve Prolapse Treated?
Even people who do have symptoms may not need treatment.
The presence of symptoms doesn't always mean that the backflow of blood through the valve is significant.
What is Surgery Surgery?
Surgery Surgery is the treatment of choice for patients with stage I NSCLC.
How Can Thrombocythemia and Thrombocytosis Be Prevented?
You can't prevent primary thrombocythemia.
However, you can take steps to reduce your risk for complications.
For example, you can control many of the risk factors for blood clots, such as high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking.
What Is Hemochromatosis?
Too much iron is toxic to your body.
It can poison your organs and cause organ failure.
In hemochromatosis, iron can build up in most of your body's organs, but especially in the liver, heart, and pancreas.
Is there any treatment for Benign Essential Blepharospasm?
In most cases of BEB the treatment of choice is botulinum toxin injections which relax the muscles and stop the spasms.
Other treatment options include medications drug therapy or surgery--either local surgery of the eye muscles or deep brain stimulation surgery.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What is the prognosis for Cerebral Arteriosclerosis?
Cerebral arteriosclerosis can lead to life threatening health events such as ischemic or hemorrhagic strokes.
People who survive stroke may have long-term neurological and motor impairments.
What is Appendicitis?
Appendicitis is a medical emergency that requires immediate care.
How can I tell if I have a sleep disorder?
If you have any of these signs, talk to a doctor or nurse.
You may need to be tested or treated for a sleep disorder.
What causes hydrocephalus?
The causes of hydrocephalus are still not well understood.
Hydrocephalus may result from inherited genetic abnormalities such as the genetic defect that causes aqueductal stenosis or developmental disorders such as those associated with neural tube defects including spina bifida and encephalocele.
Other possible causes include complications of premature birth such as intraventricular hemorrhage, diseases such as meningitis, tumors, traumatic head injury, or subarachnoid hemorrhage, which block the exit of CSF from the ventricles to the cisterns or eliminate the passageway for CSF within the cisterns.
What Are Overweight and Obesity?
The most useful measure of overweight and obesity is body mass index BMI.
BMI is calculated from your height and weight.
For more information about BMI, go to How Are Overweight and Obesity Diagnosed?.
What do I say?
Kids will have different questions and concerns about sex at different ages.
As your child gets older, the things you talk about will change.
Remember to:
What is Chronic bronchitis?
Chronic bronchitis is an ongoing, serious condition.
What is the difference between Fluzone, Fluzone High-Dose, Fluzone Intradmermal, and Fluzone Quadrivalent?
Fluzone, Fluzone High-Dose, Fluzone Intradermal, and Fluzone Quadrivalent are all injectable influenza vaccines made to protect against the flu strains most likely to cause illness for that particular flu season.
Fluzone High-Dose vaccine contains four times the amount of antigen the part of the vaccine that prompts the body to make antibody contained in regular flu shots.
The additional antigen is intended to create a stronger immune response more antibody in the person getting the vaccine.
Who Is at Risk for Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome?
People who are obese are at risk for obesity hypoventilation syndrome OHS.
Obesity refers to having too much body fat.
People who are obese have body weight that's greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
What is A chest x ray?
A chest x ray is the best test for diagnosing pneumonia.
What are the signs and symptoms of rabies?
There may be also discomfort or a prickling or itching sensation at the site of bite, progressing within days to symptoms of cerebral dysfunction, anxiety, confusion, agitation.
As the disease progresses, the person may experience delirium, abnormal behavior, hallucinations, and insomnia.
What is Infliximab Remicade?
Infliximab Remicade is an anti-tumor necrosis factor anti-TNF agent prescribed to treat people who do not respond to the other UC medications or who cannot take 5-ASAs.
What is Vasculitis vas-kyu-LI-tis?
Vasculitis vas-kyu-LI-tis is a disorder that causes the body's blood vessels to become inflamed.
What is Shaken baby syndrome?
Shaken baby syndrome is a type of inflicted traumatic brain injury that happens when a baby is violently shaken.
How is chronic diarrhea in children treated?
Infections.
If a child has prolonged problems digesting certain carbohydrates or proteins after an acute infection, a health care provider may recommend changes in diet.
A child may need antibiotics or medications that target parasites to treat infections that do not go away on their own.
A health care provider may also prescribe antibiotics to treat small intestinal bacterial overgrowth.
How is HD Inherited?
A single abnormal gene, the basic biological unit of heredity, produces HD.
Genes are composed of deoxyribonucleic acid DNA, a molecule shaped like a spiral ladder.
Each rung of this ladder is composed of two paired chemicals called bases.
There are four types of bases - adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine - each abbreviated by the first letter of its name: A, T, C, and G.
Certain bases always pair together, and different combinations of base pairs join to form coded messages.
A gene is a long string of this DNA in various combinations of A, T, C, and G.
These unique combinations determine the gene's function, much like letters join together to form words.
Each person has about 30,000 genes - a billion base pairs of DNA or bits of information repeated in the nuclei of human cells - which determine individual characteristics or traits.
Is there any treatment for Multiple Sclerosis?
While steroids do not affect the course of MS over time, they can reduce the duration and severity of attacks in some patients.
Spasticity, which can occur either as a sustained stiffness caused by increased muscle tone or as spasms that come and go, is usually treated with muscle relaxants and tranquilizers such as baclofen, tizanidine, diazepam, clonazepam, and dantrolene.
Physical therapy and exercise can help preserve remaining function, and patients may find that various aids -- such as foot braces, canes, and walkers -- can help them remain independent and mobile.
Avoiding excessive activity and avoiding heat are probably the most important measures patients can take to counter physiological fatigue.
If psychological symptoms of fatigue such as depression or apathy are evident, antidepressant medications may help.
Other drugs that may reduce fatigue in some, but not all, patients include amantadine Symmetrel, pemoline Cylert, and the still-experimental drug aminopyridine.
Although improvement of optic symptoms usually occurs even without treatment, a short course of treatment with intravenous methylprednisolone Solu-Medrol followed by treatment with oral steroids is sometimes used.
What Causes Hemophilia?
If you have inherited hemophilia, you're born with the disorder.
It's caused by a defect in one of the genes that determine how the body makes blood clotting factor VIII or IX.
These genes are located on the X chromosomes KRO-muh-somz.
How Can Asthma Be Prevented?
Identify and try to avoid things that make your asthma worse asthma triggers.
However, one trigger you should not avoid is physical activity.
Physical activity is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
Talk with your doctor about medicines that can help you stay active.
What can you do to reduce your risk of stroke?
To reduce your risk of stroke monitor your blood pressure, track your cholesterol level, stop smoking, exercise regularly and find out if you should be taking a drug to reduce blood clotting.
What are the symptoms of SMA in children?
SMA Type II, also known as juvenile SMA, intermediate SMA, or chronic SMA, has an onset between 6 and 18 months.
Legs tend to be more impaired than arms.
The first indication that a baby may have the disease is when he or she fails to crawl or walk.
Children with Type II are usually able to sit without support if placed in position.
Some may be able to stand or walk with help.
Although children with SMA Type II may not need artificial assistance to breathe, they are still at an increased risk for respiratory infections.
These children often survive into adulthood, but with significant motor disability.
What is Chemotherapy Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy Chemotherapy is the primary treatment modality for patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancers.
How Is It Diagnosed?
To be classified as juvenile arthritis, symptoms must have started before age 16.
Doctors usually suspect juvenile arthritis, along with several other possible conditions, when they see children with persistent joint pain or swelling, unexplained skin rashes, and fever associated with swelling of lymph nodes or inflammation of internal organs.
A diagnosis of juvenile arthritis also is considered in children with an unexplained limp or excessive clumsiness.
At what age should children receive rotavirus vaccine?
RotaTeq is administered in a 3-dose series, with doses administered at ages 2, 4, and 6 months.
Rotarix is administered in a 2-dose series, with doses administered at ages 2 and 4 months.
The minimum age for dose 1 of rotavirus vaccine is 6 weeks; the maximum age for dose 1 is 14 weeks and 6 days.
Vaccination should not be initiated for infants aged 15 weeks and 0 days or older because of insufficient data on safety of dose 1 of rotavirus vaccine in older infants.
The minimum interval between doses of rotavirus vaccine is 4 weeks; no maximum interval is set.
All doses should be administered by age 8 months and 0 days.
How can I heat my house safely or cook when the power is out?
Never use a charcoal grill or a barbecue grill indoors.
Using a grill indoors will cause a build up of CO inside your home, cabin, or camper unless you use it inside a vented fireplace.
What is the prognosis for Headache?
Not all headaches require medical attention.
But some types of headache are signals of more serious disorders and call for prompt medical care.
These include: sudden, severe headache or sudden headache associated with a stiff neck; headaches associated with fever, convulsions, or accompanied by confusion or loss of consciousness; headaches following a blow to the head, or associated with pain in the eye or ear; persistent headache in a person who was previously headache free; and recurring headache in children.
Migraine headaches may last a day or more and can strike as often as several times a week or as rarely as once every few years.
What is the prognosis for Whiplash?
Generally, prognosis for individuals with whiplash is good.
The neck and head pain clears within a few days or weeks.
Most patients recover within 3 months after the injury, however, some may continue to have residual neck pain and headaches.
What is Targeted therapy?
Targeted therapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack cancer cells without harming normal cells.
How is narcolepsy diagnosed?
The MSLT is performed during the day to measure a person's tendency to fall asleep and to determine whether isolated elements of REM sleep intrude at inappropriate times during the waking hours.
The sleep latency test measures the amount of time it takes for a person to fall asleep.
As part of the test, an individual is asked to take four or five short naps usually scheduled 2 hours apart over the course of a day.
Because sleep latency periods are normally 12 minutes or longer, a latency period of 8 minutes or less suggests a disorder of excessive daytime sleepiness.
However, a sleep latency of 8 minutes or less can be due to many conditions other than narcolepsy.
The MSLT also measures heart and respiratory rates, records nerve activity in muscles, and pinpoints the occurrence of abnormally timed REM episodes through EEG recordings.
If a person enters REM sleep either at the beginning or within a few minutes of sleep onset during at least two of the scheduled naps, this is considered an indication of narcolepsy.
Other reasons for REM sleep on the MSLT must be ruled out, such as the effects of medication and disrupted sleep from sleep apnea or an irregular work-rest schedule.
What is Diagnosis of the disorder based on?
Diagnosis of the disorder is based on a careful clinical exam in combination with computed tomography CT or magnetic resonance imaging MRI of the brain, which may show tubers in the brain, and an ultrasound of the heart, liver, and kidneys, which may show tumors in those organs.
What is Abdominal discomfort?
Abdominal discomfort is the most common symptom of both gastric and duodenal ulcers.
What is Insulin resistance?
Insulin resistance is a condition in which the body can't use its insulin properly.
What Is Physical Activity?
Physical activity is good for many parts of your body.
This article focuses on the benefits of physical activity for your heart and lungs.
The article also provides tips for getting started and staying active, and it discusses physical activity as part of a heart healthy lifestyle.
What is Periodontitis?
Periodontitis is a chronic infection that affects the gums and the bones that support the teeth.
What is Sjoegren's syndrome?
Sjoegren's syndrome is an autoimmune disorder in which immune cells attack and destroy the glands that produce tears and saliva.
What is Opsoclonus myoclonus?
Opsoclonus myoclonus is a rare neurological disorder characterized by an unsteady, trembling gait, myoclonus brief, shock-like muscle spasms, and opsoclonus irregular, rapid eye movements.
What are the complications of viral gastroenteritis?
Dehydration is the most common complication of viral gastroenteritis.
When someone does not drink enough fluids to replace those that are lost through vomiting and diarrhea, dehydration can result.
When dehydrated, the body does not have enough fluids to keep the proper balance of important salts or minerals, known as electrolytes.
Infants, young children, older adults, and people with weak immune systems have the greatest risk of becoming dehydrated.
What is Text4baby?
Text4baby is a free service that provides pregnant women and new moms with free text messages each week on pregnancy and caring for babies younger than 1 year old.
What is autoimmune hepatitis?
Autoimmune hepatitis is a chronic - or long lasting - disease in which the body's immune system attacks the normal components, or cells, of the liver and causes inflammation and liver damage.
The immune system normally protects people from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances.
What is Choriocarcinoma of the liver?
Choriocarcinoma of the liver is a very rare tumor that appears to originate in the placenta during gestation and presents with a liver mass in the first few months of life.
How is cerebral palsy diagnosed?
Doctors will order a series of tests to evaluate the child's motor skills.
During regular visits, the doctor will monitor the child's development, growth, muscle tone, age-appropriate motor control, hearing and vision, posture, and coordination, in order to rule out other disorders that could cause similar symptoms.
Although symptoms may change over time, CP is not progressive.
If a child is continuously losing motor skills, the problem more likely is a condition other than CP - such as a genetic or muscle disease, metabolism disorder, or tumors in the nervous system.
How can I exercise safely if I have osteoporosis?
Unfortunately, some people become so afraid of breaking another bone that they become more sedentary, which leads to further loss of bone and muscle.
Rest assured, however, that by practicing proper posture and learning the correct way to move, you can protect your bones while remaining physically active.
Every activity can be adapted to meet your age, ability, lifestyle, and strength.
Your doctor or a physical therapist can help you design a safe and effective exercise program.
In the meantime, here are some general guidelines for safe movement:
Is there any treatment for Spinal Muscular Atrophy?
There is no cure for SMA.
Treatment consists of managing the symptoms and preventing complications.
How Is Heart Failure Diagnosed?
Your doctor will diagnose heart failure based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and test results.
The signs and symptoms of heart failure also are common in other conditions.
Thus, your doctor will:
What is A lung biopsy?
A lung biopsy is a surgical procedure that's done in a hospital.
What Is a Heart Attack?
A heart attack happens when the flow of oxygen-rich blood to a section of heart muscle suddenly becomes blocked and the heart can't get oxygen.
If blood flow isn't restored quickly, the section of heart muscle begins to die.
What is Swine Influenza swine flu?
Swine Influenza swine flu is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by type A influenza virus that regularly causes outbreaks of influenza in pigs.
Is there any treatment for Bell's Palsy?
Recent studies have shown that steroids such as prednisone -- used to reduce inflammation and swelling -- are an effective treatment for Bell's palsy.
Other drugs such as acyclovir -- used to fight viral herpes infections -- may also have some benefit in shortening the course of the disease.
Analgesics such as aspirin, acetaminophen, or ibuprofen may relieve pain.
Because of possible drug interactions, individuals should always talk to their doctors before taking any over-the-counter medicines.
Keeping the eye moist and protecting it from debris and injury, especially at night, is important.
Physical therapy to stimulate the facial nerve and help maintain muscle tone may benefit some individuals.
What are the symptoms of IBS?
The most common symptoms of IBS are abdominal pain or discomfort, often reported as cramping, along with changes in bowel habits.
To meet the definition of IBS, the pain or discomfort will be associated with at least two of the following three symptoms:
10.
Which of the following is considered one drink of wine?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33559189.xml:
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency?
The first lung-related symptoms of alpha-1 antitrypsin AAT deficiency may include shortness of breath, less ability to be physically active, and wheezing.
These signs and symptoms most often begin between the ages of 20 and 40.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
What is the prognosis for Spina?
Children with spina bifida can lead active lives.
Prognosis, activity, and participation depend on the number and severity of abnormalities and associated personal and environmental factors.
Most children with the disorder have normal intelligence and can walk, often with assistive devices.
If learning problems develop, appropriate educational interventions are helpful.
What is Herpes Zoster Oticus?
Herpes zoster oticus, also called Ramsay Hunt Syndrome or Ramsay Hunt Syndrome type II, is a common complication of shingles.
Shingles is an infection caused by the varicella-zoster virus, which is the virus that causes chickenpox.
Shingles occurs in people who have had chickenpox and represents a reactivation of the dormant varicella-zoster virus.
Herpes zoster oticus, which is caused by the spread of the varicella-zoster virus to facial nerves, is characterized by intense ear pain, a rash around the ear, mouth, face, neck, and scalp, and paralysis of facial nerves.
Other symptoms may include hearing loss, vertigo abnormal sensation of movement, and tinnitus abnormal sounds.
Taste loss in the tongue and dry mouth and eyes may also occur.
What is Sleep deficiency?
Sleep deficiency is a broader concept.
Why does HD cause constipation?
How severe HD is depends on how much of the large intestine is affected.
Short-segment HD means only the last part of the large intestine lacks nerve cells.
Long-segment HD means most or all of the large intestine, and sometimes the last part of the small intestine, lacks nerve cells.
What is diverticular disease?
The problems that occur with diverticular disease include diverticulitis and diverticular bleeding.
Diverticulitis occurs when the diverticula become inflamed, or irritated and swollen, and infected.
Diverticular bleeding occurs when a small blood vessel within the wall of a diverticulum bursts.
Is TSC inherited?
Rarely, individuals acquire TSC through a process called gonadal mosaicism.
These patients have parents with no apparent defects in the two genes that cause the disorder.
Yet these parents can have a child with TSC because a portion of one of the parent's reproductive cells sperm or eggs can contain the genetic mutation without the other cells of the body being involved.
In cases of gonadal mosaicism, genetic testing of a blood sample might not reveal the potential for passing the disease to offspring.
What is Hemochromatosis?
Hemochromatosis is the most common form of iron overload disease.
How Can Family Members Help?
Often, people who have sleep apnea don't know they have it.
They're not aware that their breathing stops and starts many times while they're sleeping.
Family members or bed partners usually are the first to notice signs of sleep apnea.
What is Tabes dorsalis?
Tabes dorsalis is a slow degeneration of the nerve cells and nerve fibers that carry sensory information to the brain.
What is the diagnosis and treatment for tick-borne diseases?
Most cases can be successfully treated with specific types of antibiotics, especially if treatment is started early.
However, some workers may have symptoms such as arthritis, muscle and joint pain, or fatigue for an extended period of time.
What is the prognosis for Tourette?
Although there is no cure for TS, the condition in many individuals improves in the late teens and early 20s.
As a result, some may actually become symptom-free or no longer need medication for tic suppression.
Although the disorder is generally lifelong and chronic, it is not a degenerative condition.
Individuals with TS have a normal life expectancy.
TS does not impair intelligence.
Although tic symptoms tend to decrease with age, it is possible that neurobehavioral disorders such as ADHD, OCD, depression, generalized anxiety, panic attacks, and mood swings can persist and cause impairment in adult life.
What is the prognosis for Antiphospholipid Syndrome?
APS improves significantly with anticoagulation therapy, which reduces the risk of further clots in veins and arteries.
Treatment should be lifelong, since there is a high risk of further clots in individuals who stop warfarin treatment.
Doctors often recommend that individuals stop smoking, exercise regularly, and eat a healthy diet to prevent high blood pressure and diabetes, which are diseases that increase the risk for stroke.
Treating pregnant women with aspirin or heparin usually prevents miscarriages related to APS.
How is hearing loss treated?
If you think you have hearing loss, start by seeing a doctor.
Find out which treatment options are right for you.
What Is My Risk for Stroke?
Heart disease.
Common heart disorders can increase your risk for stroke.
For example, irregular heartbeat including atrial fibrillation which is thought to be the cause of 20% of strokes, heart valve defects, and enlarged heart chambers, can cause blood clots that may break loose and cause a stroke.
Other heart conditions, such as coronary artery disease increases your risk for stroke because plaque builds up in the arteries and blocks the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the brain.
What Is COPD?
Cigarette smoking is the leading cause of COPD.
Most people who have COPD smoke or used to smoke.
Long-term exposure to other lung irritants - such as air pollution, chemical fumes, or dust - also may contribute to COPD.
What is Behcet's Disease?
Behcet's disease is a rare, chronic inflammatory disorder.
The cause of Behcet's disease is unknown, but current research suggests that both genetic and environmental factors play a role.
Behcet's disease generally begins when individuals are in their 20s or 30s, although it can happen at any age.
It tends to occur more often in men than in women.
Symptoms of Behcet's disease include recurrent ulcers in the mouth resembling canker sores and on the genitals, and eye inflammation.
The disorder may also cause various types of skin lesions, arthritis, bowel inflammation, meningitis inflammation of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord, and cranial nerve palsies.
Behcet's is a multi-system disease; it may involve all organs and affect the central nervous system, causing memory loss and impaired speech, balance, and movement.
What is Blood pressure?
Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps blood.
What is the treatment for hepatitis A?
Hepatitis A usually resolves on its own over several weeks.
Who Is at Risk for Cardiogenic Shock?
The most common risk factor for cardiogenic shock is having a heart attack.
If you've had a heart attack, the following factors can further increase your risk for cardiogenic shock:
Is there any treatment for Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease?
There is no cure for Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease, nor is there a standard course of treatment.
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive and may include medication for movement disorders.
What is the prognosis for Acid Lipase Disease?
Infants with Wolman's disease usually die by age 1.
The onset and course of CESD varies, and individuals may live into adulthood.
What is Encephalopathy?
Encephalopathy is a term for any diffuse disease of the brain that alters brain function or structure.
Encephalopathy may be caused by infectious agent bacteria, virus, or prion, metabolic or mitochondrial dysfunction, brain tumor or increased pressure in the skull, prolonged exposure to toxic elements including solvents, drugs, radiation, paints, industrial chemicals, and certain metals, chronic progressive trauma, poor nutrition, or lack of oxygen or blood flow to the brain.
The hallmark of encephalopathy is an altered mental state.
Depending on the type and severity of encephalopathy, common neurological symptoms are progressive loss of memory and cognitive ability, subtle personality changes, inability to concentrate, lethargy, and progressive loss of consciousness.
Other neurological symptoms may include myoclonus involuntary twitching of a muscle or group of muscles, nystagmus rapid, involuntary eye movement, tremor, muscle atrophy and weakness, dementia, seizures, and loss of ability to swallow or speak.
Blood tests, spinal fluid examination, imaging studies, electroencephalograms, and similar diagnostic studies may be used to differentiate the various causes of encephalopathy.
What is Tethered spinal cord syndrome?
Tethered spinal cord syndrome is a neurological disorder caused by tissue attachments that limit the movement of the spinal cord within the spinal column.
Is there any treatment for Infantile Spasms?
Treatment with corticosteroids such as prednisone is standard, although serious side effects can occur.
Several newer antiepileptic medications, such as topiramate may ease some symptoms.
Vigabatrin Sabril has been approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration to treat infantile spasms in children ages one month to two years.
Some children have spasms as the result of brain lesions, and surgical removal of these lesions may result in improvement.
What is La Leche League?
La Leche League is an organization of trained and accredited volunteer mothers who provide mother-to-mother support and help to pregnant women considering breastfeeding and mothers who are breastfeeding in group meetings, as well as online and via telephone.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
What is Chronic sinusitis?
Chronic sinusitis is a condition in which the sinuses are infected or inflamed.
What is Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy CIDP?
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy CIDP is a neurological disorder characterized by progressive weakness and impaired sensory function in the legs and arms.
The disorder, which is sometimes called chronic relapsing polyneuropathy, is caused by damage to the myelin sheath the fatty covering that wraps around and protects nerve fibers of the peripheral nerves.
Although it can occur at any age and in both genders, CIDP is more common in young adults, and in men more so than women.
It often presents with symptoms that include tingling or numbness beginning in the toes and fingers, weakness of the arms and legs, loss of deep tendon reflexes areflexia, fatigue, and abnormal sensations.
CIDP is closely related to Guillain-Barre syndrome and it is considered the chronic counterpart of that acute disease.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Thrombocythemia and Thrombocytosis?
The signs and symptoms of a high platelet count are linked to blood clots and bleeding.
They include weakness, bleeding, headache, dizziness, chest pain, and tingling in the hands and feet.
How are these disorders treated?
Polymyositis and dermatomyositis are first treated with high doses of corticosteroid drug.
This is most often given as an oral medication but can be delivered intravenously.
Immunosuppressant drugs, such as azathioprine and methotrexate, may reduce inflammation in individuals who do not respond well to prednisone.
Periodic treatment using intravenous immunoglobulin can increase the chance for recovery in individuals with dermatomyositis or polymyositis.
Other immunosuppressive agents that may treat the inflammation associated with dermatomyositis and polymyositis include cyclosporine A, cyclophosphamide, and tacrolimus.
Physical therapy is usually recommended to prevent muscle atrophy and to regain muscle strength and range of motion.
Bed rest for an extended period of time should be avoided, as people may develop muscle atrophy, decreased muscle function, and joint contractures.
A low-sodium diet may help to counter edema and cardiovascular complications.
What is Aplastic anemia?
Aplastic anemia is a rare but serious disorder.
What are Use of NSAIDs?
Use of NSAIDs is the second most common cause of peptic ulcers.
What is the best age to give the second dose of MMR vaccine?
The second dose of MMR can be given at any time, as long as the child is at least 12 months old and it has been at least 28 days since the first dose.
However, the second dose is usually administered before the child begins kindergarten or first grade 4-5 years of age or before entry to middle school 11-12 years of age.
The age at which the second dose is required is generally mandated by state school entry requirements.
What Is Hypersensitivity Pneumonitis?
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis noo-mo-NI-tis, or HP, is a disease in which the lungs become inflamed from breathing in foreign substances, such as molds, dusts, and chemicals.
These substances also are known as antigens AN-tih-jens.
What Are the Risks of Bronchoscopy?
A rare, but more serious risk is a pneumothorax noo-mo-THOR-aks, or collapsed lung.
In this condition, air collects in the space around the lungs, which causes one or both lungs to collapse.
How Is Hypotension Diagnosed?
Hypotension is diagnosed based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
Your doctor will want to know:
How is hepatitis B spread?
Hepatitis B is spread through contact with infected blood, through sex with an infected person, and from mother to child during childbirth, whether the delivery is vaginal or via cesarean section.
What are the symptoms of the flu?
Although the term 'stomach flu' is sometimes used to describe vomiting, nausea, or diarrhea, these illnesses are caused by certain other viruses, bacteria, or possibly parasites, and are rarely related to influenza.
Also see Cold Versus Flu.
What is a canine influenza virus?
The 'canine influenza virus' is an influenza A H3N8 influenza virus not a human influenza virus that was originally an equine horse influenza virus.
This virus has spread to dogs and can now spread between dogs.
Q: Why is this vaccine not mandatory for school entry?
Healthcare providers do not need to wait to recommend and/or administer the HPV vaccine until there is a school requirement.
Almost every state has a Tdap requirement for middle school entry.
Providers should use this opportunity to administer HPV and meningococcal vaccines.
As we know, missed opportunities for HPV are very common and if providers would administer HPV when they give other recommended vaccines, coverage for the first dose could be as high as 93%.
How Is Angina Treated?
Lifestyle changes and medicines may be the only treatments needed if your symptoms are mild and aren't getting worse.
If lifestyle changes and medicines don't control angina, you may need medical procedures or cardiac rehab.
How common is porphyria?
The exact rates of porphyria are unknown and vary around the world.
For example, porphyria cutanea tarda is most common in the United States, and variegate porphyria is most common in South America.
Questions??
If you have questions about FASDs or drinking during pregnancy, please send us an e-mail at cdcinfo@cdc.gov.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
Who should not be vaccinated? see contraindications at this link.
What is Manometry?
Manometry is a test that measures muscle pressure and movements in the GI tract, such as how well the smooth muscles of the stomach and small intestine contract and relax.
What causes spina bifida?
The exact cause of spina bifida remains a mystery.
No one knows what disrupts complete closure of the neural tube, causing this malformation to develop.
Scientists suspect the factors that cause spina bifida are multiple: genetic, nutritional, and environmental factors all play a role.
Research studies indicate that insufficient intake of folic acid - a common B vitamin - in the mother's diet is a key factor in causing spina bifida and other neural tube defects.
Prenatal vitamins typically contain folic acid as well as other vitamins.
See 'Can the disorder be prevented?' for more information on folic acid..
What is the prognosis for Inclusion Body Myositis?
IBM is generally resistant to all therapies and its rate of progression appears to be unaffected by currently available treatments.
How is NF1 treated?
Scientists don't know how to prevent neurofibromas from growing.
Surgery is often recommended to remove tumors that become symptomatic and may become cancerous, as well as for tumors that cause significant cosmetic disfigurement.
Several surgical options exist, but there is no general agreement among doctors about when surgery should be performed or which surgical option is best.
Individuals considering surgery should carefully weigh the risks and benefits of all their options to determine which treatment is right for them.
Treatment for neurofibromas that become malignant may include surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy.
Surgery, radiation and/or chemotherapy may also be used to control or reduce the size of optic nerve gliomas when vision is threatened.
Some bone malformations, such as scoliosis, can be corrected surgically.
What is Agenesis of the Corpus Callosum?
Agenesis of the corpus callosum ACC is a birth defect in which the structure that connects the two hemispheres of the brain the corpus callosum is partially or completely absent.
ACC can occur as an isolated condition or in combination with other cerebral abnormalities, including Arnold-Chiari malformation, Dandy-Walker syndrome, Andermann syndrome, schizencephaly clefts or deep divisions in brain tissue, and holoprosencephaly failure of the forebrain to divide into lobes.
Girls may have a gender-specific condition called Aicardi's syndrome, which causes severe mental retardation, seizures, abnormalities in the vertebra of the spine, and lesions on the retina of the eye.
ACC can also be associated with malformations in other parts of the body, such as midline facial defects.
The effects of the disorder range from subtle or mild to severe, depending on associated brain abnormalities.
Intelligence may be normal with mild compromise of skills requiring matching of visual patterns.
But children with the most severe brain malformations may have intellectual retardation, seizures, hydrocephalus, and spasticity.
What is bleeding in the digestive tract?
Bleeding in the digestive tract is any type of bleeding that starts in the digestive tract.
Bleeding in the digestive tract is a symptom of a disease rather than a disease itself.
Health care providers describe two types of bleeding:
What Is Fanconi Anemia?
Although FA is a blood disorder, it also can affect many of your body's organs, tissues, and systems.
Children who inherit FA are at higher risk of being born with birth defects.
FA also increases the risk of some cancers and other serious health problems.
Who is at risk for encephalitis and meningitis?
Anyone can get encephalitis or meningitis.
People with weakened immune systems, including those persons with HIV or those taking immunosuppressant drugs, are at the highest risk of contracting the diseases.
What is the prognosis for Spinal?
The prognosis is poor for babies with SMA Type I.
Most die within the first two years.
For children with SMA Type II, the prognosis for life expectancy or for independent standing or walking roughly correlates with how old they are when they first begin to experience symptoms - older children tend to have less severe symptoms.
Some children may have a normal life expectancy and learn to walk with the aid of a brace.
Others may die from respiratory infections, such as pneumonia.
Children with onset after 18 months are often able to walk and are fully functional for years before they need assistance.
They may have a normal life expectancy.
How do I know if I'm having a stroke?
Stroke is a medical emergency.
Call 911 right away if you or someone else has signs of stroke.
Your chances of survival and recovery from a stroke are better if you get emergency treatment immediately.
What causes Machado-Joseph Disease?
MJD is classified as one of many dominantly inherited ataxias, specifically the spinocerebellar ataxias or SCAs.
In the SCAs, of which nearly 30 separate genetic causes have been identified, degeneration of cells in the hindbrain leads to impaired coordination of movement.
The hindbrain includes the cerebellum a large bundle of brain tissue resembling a bun located at the back of the head, the brain stem, and the upper part of the spinal cord.
MJD is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, meaning that an affected person has a single disease-causing MJD allele an allele is half of a pair of genes located at the same position on a person's chromosomes and a normal MJD allele, and can pass on either allele to the next generation.
Any child of an affected parent has a 50 percent chance of inheriting the disease allele.
If the child inherits the disease-causing gene, he or she will eventually develop symptoms of the disease.
A child who does not inherit the disease allele will not develop the disease and cannot pass it on to the next generation.
What research is being done for Cerebro-Oculo-Facio-Skeletal?
The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders such as COFS.
The goals of this research include finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure these disorders.
How is the Fluzone High-Dose vaccine available?
This vaccine is approved for marketing in 0.5 mL preservative-free, single dose, prefilled syringes.
What is the prognosis for Neurotoxicity?
The prognosis depends upon the length and degree of exposure and the severity of neurological injury.
In some instances, exposure to neurotoxicants can be fatal.
In others, patients may survive but not fully recover.
In other situations, many individuals recover completely after treatment.
Why do I need to take steps to prevent injuries at work?
An injury caused by doing the same activity over and over is called a repetitive motion injury.
More and more workers are getting repetitive motion injuries.
What is Post-polio syndrome PPS?
Post-polio syndrome PPS is a condition that can strike polio survivors decades after their recovery from poliomyelitis.
What does CDC i Doing?
CDC works to address these drinking water challenges through its water-related research, prevention, and policy activities and programs, including:
What should you expect before a Blood Transfusion?
Before a blood transfusion, a technician tests your blood to find out your blood type A, B, AB, or O and whether you're Rh-positive or Rh-negative.
He or she pricks your finger with a needle to get a few drops of blood or draws blood from one of your veins.
What causes proctitis?
Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
Two forms of inflammatory bowel disease IBD - ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease - can cause proctitis.
Ulcerative colitis causes irritation and ulcers, also called sores, in the inner lining of the colon - part of the large intestine - and rectum.
Crohn's disease usually causes irritation in the lower small intestine - also called the ileum - or the colon, but it can affect any part of the GI tract.
Who's at risk?
As pedestrians, children are at even greater risk of injury or death from traffic crashes due to their small size, inability to judge distances and speeds, and lack of experience with traffic rules.
Who Is More Likely to Develop Kidney Disease?
And more than 35% of adults with diabetes have chronic kidney disease.
High blood sugar blood glucose and high blood pressure increase the risk that chronic kidney disease will eventually lead to kidney failure.
If you have diabetes, controlling your blood sugar and blood pressure reduces the risk of developing kidney disease or may delay it.
What research is being done for Alpers' Disease?
The NINDS supports research on gene-linked neurodegenerative disorders such as Alpers' disease.
The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
What Research is Being Done?
The NINDS conducts and supports an extensive research program of basic science to increase understanding of how the nervous system works and what causes the system to sometimes go awry, leading to dysfunction.
Part of this research program focuses on learning more about the circumstances that lead to nerve damage and the conditions that cause injuries and damage to nerves.
Knowledge gained from this research may help scientists find the definitive cause of Bell's palsy, leading to the discovery of new effective treatments for the disorder.
Other NINDS-supported research is aimed at developing methods to repair damaged nerves and restore full use and strength to injured areas, and finding ways to prevent nerve damage and injuries from occurring.
How is BMI used with children and teens?
For children, BMI is used to screen for obesity, overweight, healthy weight, or underweight.
However, BMI is not a diagnostic tool.
For example, a child may have a high BMI for age and sex, but to determine if excess fat is a problem, a health care provider would need to perform further assessments.
These assessments might include skinfold thickness measurements, evaluations of diet, physical activity, family history, and other appropriate health screenings.
As an adult, do I need this vaccine?
Most adults do not need polio vaccine because they were already vaccinated as children.
But three groups of adults are at higher risk and should consider polio vaccination in the following situations:
What is Iron-deficiency anemia?
Iron-deficiency anemia is a common, easily treated condition that occurs if you don't have enough iron in your body.
What is Incidence Chordoma?
Incidence Chordoma is a very rare tumor of bone that arises from remnants of the notochord within the clivus, spinal vertebrae, or sacrum.
Who Is at Risk for an Arrhythmia?
Some types of arrhythmia happen more often in children and young adults.
Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia PSVT, including Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, is more common in young people.
PSVT is a fast heart rate that begins and ends suddenly.
What is Metastasis?
Metastasis is the spread of cancer from the primary site place where it started to other places in the body.
Who is recommended for vaccination?
Everyone who is at least 6 months of age should get a flu vaccine this season.
This recommendation has been in place since February 24, 2010 when CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ACIP voted for 'universal' flu vaccination in the United States to expand protection against the flu to more people.
What is the prognosis for Spasticity?
The prognosis for those with spasticity depends on the severity of the spasticity and the associated disorders.
What is the prognosis for Metachromatic Leukodystrophy?
The prognosis for MLD is poor.
Most children within the infantile form die by age 5.
Symptoms of the juvenile form progress with death occurring 10 to 20 years following onset.
Those persons affected by the adult form typically die withing 6 to 14 years following onset of symptoms.
Who Treats It?
Treating juvenile arthritis often requires a team approach, encompassing the child and his or her family and a number of different health professionals.
Ideally, the child's care should be managed by a pediatric rheumatologist, who is a doctor who has been specially trained to treat the rheumatic diseases in children.
However, many pediatricians and 'adult' rheumatologists also treat children with juvenile arthritis.
Because there are relatively few pediatric rheumatologists and they are mainly concentrated at major medical centers in metropolitan areas, children who live in smaller towns and rural areas may benefit from having a doctor in their town coordinate care through a pediatric rheumatologist.
Many large centers now conduct outreach clinics, in which doctors and a supporting team travel from large cities to smaller towns for 1 or 2 days to treat local patients.
How is HD Diagnosed?
The physician may ask the individual to undergo a brain imaging test.
Computed tomography CT and magnetic resonance imaging MRI provide excellent images of brain structures with little if any discomfort.
Those with HD may show shrinkage of some parts of the brain - particularly two areas known as the caudate nuclei and putamen - and enlargement of fluid-filled cavities within the brain called ventricles.
These changes do not definitely indicate HD, however, because they can also occur in other disorders.
In addition, a person can have early symptoms of HD and still have a normal CT scan.
When used in conjunction with a family history and record of clinical symptoms, however, CT can be an important diagnostic tool.
Is It Possible to Get Too Much Exercise?
For most people, including children and teens, the challenge is to get enough physical activity.
However, excessive exercise and overtraining, often coupled with restrictive eating, can be a problem, especially for some female athletes and dancers, as well as girls who become obsessive about weight loss.
Overtraining, like eating disorders, can result in decreased estrogen and eventually lead to thin bones that break easily.
My Son Has Asthma and Takes a Steroid Medication to Control It.
His Doctor Said This Might Affect His Bones.
Is There Anything We Can Do About This?
Kids with asthma need to take special care of their bones, making sure to get enough calcium and weight-bearing exercise.
Some health care providers recommend extra calcium each day.
Many people think milk and dairy products - great sources of calcium and vitamin D - trigger asthma attacks, but this is probably true only if your child is allergic to dairy foods.
Unfortunately, this misconception often results in an unnecessary avoidance of dairy products, which is concerning, especially during the bone-building years.
What is the prognosis for Restless Legs Syndrome?
RLS is generally a life-long condition for which there is no cure.
Symptoms may gradually worsen with age.
Nevertheless, current therapies can control the disorder, minimizing symptoms and increasing periods of restful sleep.
In addition, some individuals have remissions, periods in which symptoms decrease or disappear for days, weeks, or months, although symptoms usually eventually reappear.
What is Swine Influenza swine flu?
Swine Influenza swine flu is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by type A influenza viruses that regularly cause outbreaks of influenza in pigs.
What Is an Automated External Defibrillator?
An automated external defibrillator AED is a portable device that checks the heart rhythm.
If needed, it can send an electric shock to the heart to try to restore a normal rhythm.
AEDs are used to treat sudden cardiac arrest SCA.
Who are the people who are most at risk for health problems associated with exposure to mold?
People with allergies may be more sensitive to molds.
People with immune suppression or underlying lung disease are more susceptible to fungal infections.
What is Hydroxyurea?
Hydroxyurea is a medicine generally used to treat cancer.
What is A heart murmur?
A heart murmur is an extra or unusual sound heard during the heartbeat.
What is Radiation therapy?
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing.
What is the prognosis for Hereditary Neuropathies?
The prognosis for individuals with hereditary neuropathies depends upon the type of neuropathy.
Some hereditary neuropathies have very mild symptoms and may go undiagnosed for many years.
Other types are more severe and are associated with more disabilities.
Genetic counseling is important to understand further details about the disease and prognosis.
What side effects have pregnant women experienced from the seasonal flu shot?
The most common side effects after flu shots are mild, such as being sore and tender and/or red and swollen where the shot was given.
Some people might have headache, muscle aches, fever, and nausea or feel tired.
If these problems happen, they usually begin soon after the shot is given and may last as long as 1-2 days.
Some people may faint after getting any shot.
Sometimes, flu shots can cause serious problems like severe allergic reactions.
But, life-threatening allergic reactions to vaccines are very rare.
A person who has a severe life-threatening allergy to eggs or to anything else in the vaccine should not get the shot, even if she is pregnant.
Pregnant women should tell the person giving the shots if they have any severe allergies or if they have ever had a severe allergic reaction following a flu shot.
What is Sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a common disorder in which you have one or more pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep.
2.
Is it possible to prevent FASDs fetal alcohol spectrum disorders?
xml-splitTrecTrim/33559090.xml:
How Is Blood Pressure Tested?
Most often, you will sit or lie down with the cuff around your arm as your doctor or nurse checks your blood pressure.
If he or she doesn't tell you what your blood pressure numbers are, you should ask.
Who is at greatest risk from wildfire smoke?
People who have heart or lung diseases, like congestive heart failure, angina, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease including emphysema, or asthma, are at higher risk from wildfire smoke.
In general, people with these conditions are at higher risk of having health problems than healthy people.
Why is folic acid important?
Getting enough folic acid is important even when you aren't planning to get pregnant.
It's needed during the first few weeks of pregnancy, often before a woman knows she's pregnant.
Who Is at Risk for Coronary Microvascular Disease?
Studies have shown that women are more likely than men to have coronary microvascular disease MVD.
Women at high risk for the disease often have multiple risk factors for atherosclerosis.
For a detailed list of these risk factors, go to What Causes Coronary Microvascular Disease?.
Who Is at Risk for Hemochromatosis?
Alcoholism is another risk factor for hemochromatosis.
A family history of certain diseases and conditions also puts you at higher risk for hemochromatosis.
Examples of such diseases and conditions include heart attack, liver disease, diabetes, arthritis, and erectile dysfunction impotence.
What research is being done for Neuroacanthocytosis?
The NINDS supports research on disorders such as neuroacanthocytosis, aimed at increasing scientific understanding of the disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.
The genetic mutations responsible for some types of neuroacanthocytosis have recently been identified.
Researchers are examining the role of the basal ganglia in neuroacanthocytosis and hope to correlate the specific genetic abnormalities with the clinical features of the disease.
Other research is aimed at identifying possible causes of sudden death related to heart muscle abnormalities, which are observed in some individuals with neuroacanthocytosis.
How is PPS diagnosed?
Polio survivors with new symptoms resembling PPS should consider seeking treatment from a physician trained in neuromuscular disorders.
It is important to clearly establish the origin and potential causes for declining strength and to assess progression of weakness not explained by other health problems.
Magnetic resonance imaging MRI and computed tomography CT of the spinal cord, electrophysiological studies, and other tests are frequently used to investigate the course of decline in muscle strength and exclude other diseases that could be causing or contributing to the new progressive symptoms.
A muscle biopsy or a spinal fluid analysis can be used to exclude other, possibly treatable, conditions that mimic PPS.
Polio survivors may acquire other illnesses and should always have regular check-ups and preventive diagnostic tests.
However, there is no diagnostic test for PPS, nor is there one that can identify which polio survivors are at greatest risk.
What is Migraine?
The pain of a migraine headache is often described as an intense pulsing or throbbing pain in one area of the head.
However, it is much more; the International Headache Society diagnoses a migraine by its pain and number of attacks at least 5, lasting 4-72 hours if untreated, and additional symptoms including nausea and/or vomiting, or sensitivity to both light and sound.
Migraine is three times more common in women than in men and affects more than 10 percent of people worldwide.
Roughly one-third of affected individuals can predict the onset of a migraine because it is preceded by an aura, visual disturbances that appear as flashing lights, zig-zag lines or a temporary loss of vision.
People with migraine tend to have recurring attacks triggered by a number of different factors, including stress, anxiety, hormonal changes, bright or flashing lights, lack of food or sleep, and dietary substances.
Migraine in some women may relate to changes in hormones and hormonal levels during their menstrual cycle.
For many years, scientists believed that migraines were linked to the dilation and constriction of blood vessels in the head.
Investigators now believe that migraine has a genetic cause.
Why are blood banks now screening for Chagas disease?
The transmission of Chagas disease via blood transfusion is a recognized risk.
Screening tests recently have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
Screening for Chagas disease makes the blood supply even safer for everyone.
What is Pernicious anemia?
Pernicious anemia is a type of anemia.
What Can I Do if I Suspect a Friend May Have Some of These Signs?
First, be supportive.
Approach your friend or teammate carefully, and be sensitive.
She probably won't appreciate a lecture about how she should be taking better care of herself.
But maybe you could share a copy of this fact sheet with her or suggest that she talk to a trainer, coach, or doctor about the symptoms she's experiencing.
What is A syndrome?
A syndrome is a medical condition characterized by a collection of symptoms what the patient feels and signs what a doctor can observe or measure.
What is Asthma AZ-ma?
Asthma AZ-ma is a chronic long-term lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis?
The signs and symptoms of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF develop over time.
They may not even begin to appear until the disease has done serious damage to your lungs.
Once they occur, they're likely to get worse over time.
What is Aerobic exercise?
Aerobic exercise is the type that gets your heart pumping faster and keeps your heart rate elevated for a while.
What causes the mucolipidoses?
Patients with ML are born with a genetic defect in which their bodies either do not produce enough enzymes or, in some instances, produce ineffective forms of enzymes.
Without functioning enzymes, which are proteins, lysosomes cannot break down carbohydrates and lipids and transport them to their normal destination.
The molecules then accumulate in the cells of various tissues in the body, leading to sdamage of organs.
In patients with ML, the molecules accumulate in nerve, liver, and muscle tissue as well as in bone marrow, and this abnormal storage causes the various symptoms associated with ML.
For example, excess storage of these molecules in nerve tissues can cause mental retardation, accumulation in the tissues of the spleen and liver can cause poor functioning of these vital organs, and excess storage in the bone marrow can damage bones, leading to skeletal deformities.
What is Primary Lateral Sclerosis?
Primary lateral sclerosis PLS is a rare neuromuscular disease with slowly progressive weakness in voluntary muscle movement.
PLS belongs to a group of disorders known as motor neuron diseases.
PLS affects the upper motor neurons also called corticospinal neurons in the arms, legs, and face.
It occurs when nerve cells in the motor regions of the cerebral cortex the thin layer of cells covering the brain which is responsible for most higher level mental functions gradually degenerate, causing movements to be slow and effortful.
The disorder often affects the legs first, followed by the body, trunk, arms and hands, and, finally the bulbar muscles muscles that control speech, swallowing, and chewing.
Symptoms include weakness, muscle stiffness and spasticity, clumsiness, slowing of movement, and problems with balance and speech.
PLS is more common in men than in women, with a varied gradual onset that generally occurs between ages 40 and 60.
PLS progresses gradually over a number of years, or even decades.
Scientists do not believe PLS has a simple hereditary cause.
The diagnosis of PLS requires extensive testing to exclude other diseases.
When symptoms begin, PLS may be mistaken for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS or spastic paraplegia.
Most neurologists follow an affected individual's clinical course for at least 3 to 4 years before making a diagnosis of PLS.
What is Autoimmune hepatitis?
Autoimmune hepatitis is a chronic - or long lasting - disease in which the body's immune system attacks the normal components, or cells, of the liver and causes inflammation and liver damage.
What is the prognosis for Megalencephaly?
The prognosis for infants and children with megalencephaly depends upon the underlying cause and the associated neurological disorders.
The prognosis for children with hemimegalencephaly is poor.
What Is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis often can be prevented.
It is known as a silent disease because, if undetected, it can progress for many years without symptoms until a fracture occurs.
Osteoporosis has been called a childhood disease with consequences in old age because building healthy bones in youth helps prevent the disease and fractures later in life.
However, it is never too late to adopt new habits for healthy bones.
What is the state of the science involving narcolepsy?
Many other genes besides those making up the HLA complex and the T-cell receptor may contribute to the development of narcolepsy.
Groups of neurons in several parts of the brain stem and the central brain, including the thalamus and hypothalamus, interact to control sleep.
Large numbers of genes on different chromosomes control these neurons' activities, any of which could contribute to the development of the disease.
Scientists studying narcolepsy in dogs have identified a mutation that appears to cause the disorder in Dobermans, Labradors, and Dachshunds.
This mutated gene disrupts the ability to receive the signal from hypocretins also known as orexins that are produced by neurons located in the hypothalamus.
The neurons that produce hypocretins are active during wakefulness, and research suggests that they keep the brain systems needed for wakefulness from shutting down unexpectedly.
Mice born without functioning hypocretin genes develop symptoms of narcolepsy.
What are the symptoms?
Although the sequence of emerging symptoms and the rate of disease progression vary from person to person, eventually individuals will not be able to stand or walk, get in or out of bed on their own, or use their hands and arms.
Difficulty swallowing and chewing impair the person's ability to eat normally and increase the risk of choking.
Maintaining weight will then become a problem.
Because cognitive abilities are relatively intact, people are aware of their progressive loss of function and may become anxious and depressed.
A small percentage of individuals may experience problems with memory or decision-making, and there is growing evidence that some may even develop a form of dementia over time.
Health care professionals need to explain the course of the disease and describe available treatment options so that people can make informed decisions in advance.
In later stages of the disease, individuals have difficulty breathing as the muscles of the respiratory system weaken.
They eventually lose the ability to breathe on their own and must depend on ventilatory support for survival.
Affected individuals also face an increased risk of pneumonia during later stages of ALS.
What's the difference between confidential and anonymous testing?
When you get tested at a doctor's office or clinic, your test results are confidential.
This means they can only be shared with people allowed to see your medical records.
Who gets Rett syndrome?
The story is different for boys who have a MECP2 mutation known to cause Rett syndrome in girls.
Because boys have only one X chromosome and one Y chromosome they lack a back-up copy that could compensate for the defective one, and they have no protection from the harmful effects of the disorder.
Boys with such a defect frequently do not show clinical features of Rett syndrome but experience severe problems when they are first born and die shortly after birth.
A very small number of boys may have a different mutation in the MECP2 gene or a sporadic mutation after conception that can cause some degree of intellectual disability and developmental problems.
What is the prognosis for Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease?
The prognosis for those with the severe forms of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is poor, with progressive deterioration until death.
On the other end of the disease spectrum, individuals with the mild form, in which spastic paraplegia is the chief symptom, may have nearly normal activity and life span.
Is the number of people in the United States being hospitalized for seasonal flu complications each year increasing?
The results of a study conducted by CDC and published in the Journal of American Medical Association JAMA in September 2004 indicated an overall increasing trend in the number of seasonal flu-related hospitalizations in the United States each year.
The study looked at hospital records from 1979 to 2001.
In 1979, there were 120,929 flu-related hospitalizations.
The number was lower in some years after that, but there was an overall upward trend.
During the 1990s, the average number of people hospitalized was over 200,000 but individual seasons ranged from a low of 157,911 in 1990-91 to a high of 430,960 in 1997-98.
What is the prognosis for Progressive?
PSP gets progressively worse but is not itself directly life-threatening.
It does, however, predispose individuals to serious complications such as pneumonia secondary to difficulty in swallowing dysphagia.
The most common complications are choking and pneumonia, head injury, and fractures caused by falls.
The most common cause of death is pneumonia.
With good attention to medical and nutritional needs, it is possible for most individuals with PSP to live a decade or more after the first symptoms of the disease.
What is Schizencephaly?
Schizencephaly is an extremely rare developmental birth defect characterized by abnormal slits, or clefts, in the cerebral hemispheres of the brain.
What research is being done for Olivopontocerebellar Atrophy?
The NINDS supports and conducts a broad range of basic and clinical research on cerebellar degeneration, including work aimed at finding the causes of OPCA and ways to treat, cure, and, ultimately, prevent the disease.
There has been great progress recently since the genes for several of the hereditary forms of OPCA have been found.
How Is Tetralogy of Fallot Diagnosed?
Signs and symptoms of the heart defect usually occur during the first weeks of life.
Your infant's doctor may notice signs or symptoms during a routine checkup.
Some parents also notice cyanosis or poor feeding and bring the baby to the doctor.
Cyanosis is a bluish tint to the skin, lips, and fingernails..
What is Whiplash?
Whiplash-a soft tissue injury to the neck-is also called neck sprain or neck strain.
It is characterized by a collection of symptoms that occur following damage to the neck, usually because of sudden extension and flexion.
The disorder commonly occurs as the result of an automobile accident and may include injury to intervertebral joints, discs, and ligaments, cervical muscles, and nerve roots.
Symptoms such as neck pain may be present directly after the injury or may be delayed for several days.
In addition to neck pain, other symptoms may include neck stiffness, injuries to the muscles and ligaments myofascial injuries, headache, dizziness, abnormal sensations such as burning or prickling paresthesias, or shoulder or back pain.
In addition, some people experience cognitive, somatic, or psychological conditions such as memory loss, concentration impairment, nervousness/irritability, sleep disturbances, fatigue, or depression.
Who can receive the intradermal flu vaccine?
Fluzone Intradermal is approved for use in adults aged 18 through 64 years of age.
What Are the Risks of Cardiac MRI?
If your cardiac MRI includes a stress test, more medicines will be used during the test.
These medicines may have other side effects that aren't expected during a regular MRI scan, such as:
Is there any treatment for Foot Drop?
Treatment depends on the specific cause of foot drop.
The most common treatment is to support the foot with light-weight leg braces and shoe inserts, called ankle-foot orthotics.
Exercise therapy to strengthen the muscles and maintain joint motion also helps to improve gait.
Devices that electrically stimulate the peroneal nerve during footfall are appropriate for a small number of individuals with foot drop.
In cases with permanent loss of movement, surgery that fuses the foot and ankle joint or that transfers tendons from stronger leg muscles is occasionally performed.
How can Wilson disease be prevented?
A person cannot prevent Wilson disease; however, people with a family history of Wilson disease, especially those with an affected sibling or parent, should talk with a health care provider about testing.
A health care provider may be able to diagnose Wilson disease before symptoms appear.
Early diagnosis and treatment of Wilson disease can reduce or even prevent organ damage.
What is Hirschsprung* disease HD?
Hirschsprung* disease HD is a disease of the large intestine that causes severe constipation or intestinal obstruction.
What is Norovirus?
Norovirus is the leading cause of foodborne-disease outbreaks in the United States.
How Will a Pacemaker Affect My Lifestyle?
You can walk through security system metal detectors at your normal pace.
Security staff can check you with a metal detector wand as long as it isn't held for too long over your pacemaker site.
You should avoid sitting or standing close to a security system metal detector.
Notify security staff if you have a pacemaker.
How did the CDC work with state and local health departments during the response efforts to 9/11 and the anthrax attacks?
Deployed field teams to Dade County, NYC, NJ, Washington, DC, and CT to assist state, local, and district health departments in ongoing investigations of cases, surveillance, and outbreak control.
Staff from CDC Ft Collins, CO assisted state and local authorities in the investigation of a suspect case there.
Assisted LRN laboratories in the assessment of numerous powders.
Received and processed numerous clinical and environmental specimens and provided reference diagnostic services.
Assisted in coordination of epidemiologic and law enforcement investigations.
What causes Meningitis?
Meningitis is most often caused by a bacterial infection.
What research is being done for Antiphospholipid Syndrome?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH support research on APS through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
NINDS is currently funding a clinical trial looking at the effectiveness of warfarin versus aspirin treatment in reducing recurrent strokes in individuals with APS.
NINDS is also funding efforts to find additional indicators in the blood, such as certain antibodies, that could help doctors more accurately predict an individual's risk for recurrent stroke.
What Is Type I OI?
Nearly all cases of OI, mild or severe, are caused by a dominant genetic mutation that affects the body's production of type 1 collagen.
Although the body produces several types of collagen, only type 1 collagen has been associated with OI.
Type 1 collagen, the main protein building block in bone, is also important in other connective tissues such as tendons and ligaments.
When there is a problem with the body's production of type 1 collagen, the bones are brittle and break more easily.
What is Hysterectomy?
Hysterectomy is the standard treatment for patients with adenocarcinoma in situ.
What is Hypertonia?
Hypertonia is a condition in which there is too much muscle tone so that arms or legs, for example, are stiff and difficult to move.
Muscle tone is regulated by signals that travel from the brain to the nerves and tell the muscle to contract.
Hypertonia happens when the regions of the brain or spinal cord that control these signals are damaged.
This can occur for many reasons, such as a blow to the head, stroke, brain tumors, toxins that affect the brain, neurodegenerative processes such as in multiple sclerosis or Parkinson's disease, or neurodevelopmental abnormalities such as in cerebral palsy.
What is A stool test?
A stool test is the analysis of a sample of stool.
How can I protect my baby from hepatitis B?
Getting tested for hepatitis B is especially important for pregnant women.
If you are not infected, get the vaccine.
If you have hepatitis B, make sure the doctor and staff that deliver your baby know so they can minimize your baby's risk of infection.
The hepatitis B vaccine and hepatitis B immune globulin should be given to your baby immediately after birth, greatly reducing the chance of infection.
How do I know if I have hearing loss?
If you answered yes to some of these questions, you may have hearing loss.
Take this quiz to find out if you might have a hearing problem.
What Are the Risks of Echocardiography?
Stress echo has some risks, but they're related to the exercise or medicine used to raise your heart rate, not the echo.
Serious complications from stress tests are very uncommon.
Go to the Health Topics Stress Testing article for more information about the risks of that test.
What Are the Treatable Risk Factors?
Some of the most important treatable risk factors for stroke are:
How should blood spills be cleaned from surfaces to make sure that Hepatitis C virus is gone?
Any blood spills - including dried blood, which can still be infectious - should be cleaned using a dilution of one part household bleach to 10 parts water.
Gloves should be worn when cleaning up blood spills.
What is Monkeypox?
Monkeypox is a rare viral disease that occurs mainly in the rain forest countries of central and west Africa.
How Is Hemochromatosis Treated?
Treatments for hemochromatosis include therapeutic phlebotomy fleh-BOT-o-me, iron chelation ke-LAY-shun therapy, dietary changes, and treatment for complications.
What research is being done for Batten?
Studying the lipopigment deposits that contain fats and proteins, one NINDS-supported scientist, using animal models of NCL, found that a large portion of this built-up material is a protein called subunit c.
This protein is normally found inside the cell's mitochondria, small structures that produce the energy cells need to do their jobs.
Scientists are now working to understand what role this protein may play in NCL, including how this protein accumulates inside diseased cell and whether its accumulation - or the accumulation of other components in the storage material - is harmful to the cell.
An important aspect of these studies is looking at how the different gene mutations lead to the lipoprotein deposits, which may involve the same processes.
What research is being done for Infantile Neuroaxonal Dystrophy?
Researchers continue to search for the defective gene that causes INAD in hopes of developing drugs that can stop the disease.
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to INAD in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health NIH, and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as INAD.
What is Continent ileostomy?
Continent ileostomy is an option for people who are not good candidates for ileoanal reservoir surgery because of damage to the rectum or anus but do not want to wear an ostomy pouch
What Is Coronary Microvascular Disease?
Plaque narrows the heart's large arteries and reduces the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle.
The buildup of plaque also makes it more likely that blood clots will form in your arteries.
Blood clots can mostly or completely block blood flow through a coronary artery.
How Can Heart Disease Be Prevented?
Following a healthy diet also is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
A healthy diet includes a variety of vegetables and fruits.
It also includes whole grains, fat-free or low-fat dairy products, and protein foods, such as lean meats, poultry without skin, seafood, processed soy products, nuts, seeds, beans, and peas.
What is primary sclerosing cholangitis PSC?
In PSC, inflammation of the bile ducts leads to scar formation and narrowing of the ducts over time.
As scarring increases, the ducts become blocked.
As a result, bile builds up in the liver and damages liver cells.
Eventually, scar tissue can spread throughout the liver, causing cirrhosis and liver failure.
Can appendicitis be treated without surgery?
Nonsurgical treatment may be used if surgery is not available, a person is not well enough to undergo surgery, or the diagnosis is unclear.
Nonsurgical treatment includes antibiotics to treat infection.
What is A mammogram?
A mammogram is an x-ray of the breast.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing.
Is there any treatment for Thoracic Outlet Syndrome?
Treatment begins with exercise programs and physical therapy to strengthen chest muscles, restore normal posture, and relieve compression by increasing the space of the area the nerve passes through.
Doctors will often prescribe non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as naproxen or ibuprofen for pain.
Other medicines include thromobolytics to break up blood clots and anticoagulants to prevent clots.
If this doesn't relieve pain, a doctor may recommend thoracic outlet decompression surgery to release or remove the structures causing compression of the nerve or artery.
Will this study find a prevention/cure for autism?
It is too soon to speculate on what we might find about the risk factors of autism.
But, we are hopeful that the findings from SEED will help the development of future studies specifically designed to assess treatments among children with autism.
What causes porphyria?
Most porphyrias are inherited disorders.
Scientists have identified genes for all eight enzymes in the heme biosynthetic pathway.
Most porphyrias result from inheriting an abnormal gene, also called a gene mutation, from one parent.
Some porphyrias, such as congenital erythropoietic porphyria, hepatoerythropoietic porphyria, and erythropoietic protoporphyria, occur when a person inherits two abnormal genes, one from each parent.
The likeliness of a person passing the abnormal gene or genes to the next generation depends on the type of porphyria.
What are the different categories of tremor?
Essential tremor sometimes called benign essential tremor is the most common of the forms of abnormal tremor.
Although the tremor may be mild and nonprogressive in some people over a long period of time, in others, the tremor is slowly progressive, starting on one side of the body but affecting both sides within a few years.
The hands are most often affected but the head, voice, tongue, legs, and trunk may also be involved, typically to a lesser extend than the hands.
Tremor of the hands is typically present as an action tremor.
Head tremor may be seen as a 'yes-yes' or 'no-no' motion.
Essential tremor may be accompanied by mild gait disturbance.
Tremor frequency may decrease as the person ages, but the severity may increase, affecting the person's ability to perform certain tasks or activities of daily living.
Heightened emotion, stress, fever, physical exhaustion, or low blood sugar may trigger tremors and/or increase their severity.
Onset is most common after age 40, although symptoms can appear at any age.
It may occur in more than one family member.
Children of a parent who has essential tremor have a 50 percent chance of inheriting the condition.
A variant in the gene LINGO1 has been identified as a risk gene, although not all individuals with essential tremor carry this variant--which also can be present in people without essential tremor.
While essential tremor was thought not to be associated with any known pathology over many years, recent studies suggest that there is a mild degeneration of certain parts of the cerebellum in individuals with essential tremor.
Why should pregnant women get the seasonal flu vaccine?
To prevent influenza and complications in pregnant women, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's CDC Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ACIP in 2004 began recommending routine immunization of pregnant women with the flu shot at any stage of pregnancy.
The nasal spray vaccine is not recommended for use in pregnant women.
More information on the ACIP recommendations for influenza vaccination during the 2013-2014 season.
Q: Who should get HPV vaccine?
A: All kids who are 11 or 12 years old should get the three dose series of HPV vaccine.
Teen boys and girls who did not get the vaccine when they were younger should get it now.
Young women can get HPV vaccine through age 26, and young men can get vaccinated through age 21.
The vaccine is also recommended for gay and bisexual young men or any young man who has sex with men and also for young men with compromised immune systems including HIV through age 26, if they did not get HPV vaccine when they were younger.
What is the prognosis for Whipple's Disease?
Generally, antibiotic treatment to destroy the bacteria that caused the disease results in relief of symptoms.
However, the disorder may be persistent despite sustained treatment with antibiotics.
Relapses are frequent.
With treatment, the disorder can be cured.
Untreated, Whipple's disease is fatal.
What is the prognosis for Ataxia Telangiectasia?
Average lifespan has been improving for years, for unknown reasons, and varies with the severity of the underlying mutations, ATM ataxia-telangiectasia mutated protein levels, and residual ATM kinase activity.
Some individuals with later onset of disease and slower progression survive into their 50s.
Why are human infections with variant viruses of concern?
Influenza viruses that infect pigs are different from human influenza viruses.
Thus, influenza vaccines made against human influenza viruses are generally not expected to protect people from influenza viruses that normally circulate in pigs.
In addition, because pigs are susceptible to avian, human and swine influenza viruses, they potentially may be infected with influenza viruses from different species e.g., ducks and humans at the same time.
If this happens, it is possible for the genes of these viruses to mix and create a new virus that could spread easily from person-to-person.
This type of major change in the influenza A viruses is known as antigenic shift.
Antigenic shift results when a new influenza A virus to which most people have little or no immune protection infects humans.
If this new virus causes illness in people and can be transmitted easily from person-to-person, an influenza pandemic can occur.
This is what happened in 2009 when an influenza A H1N1 virus with swine, avian and human genes emerged in the spring of 2009 and caused the first pandemic in more than 40 years.
What causes autism?
Scientists aren't certain about what causes ASD, but it's likely that both genetics and environment play a role.
Researchers have identified a number of genes associated with the disorder.
Studies of people with ASD have found irregularities in several regions of the brain.
Other studies suggest that people with ASD have abnormal levels of serotonin or other neurotransmitters in the brain.
These abnormalities suggest that ASD could result from the disruption of normal brain development early in fetal development caused by defects in genes that control brain growth and that regulate how brain cells communicate with each other, possibly due to the influence of environmental factors on gene function.
While these findings are intriguing, they are preliminary and require further study.
The theory that parental practices are responsible for ASD has long been disproved.
What is Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker Disease?
Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease GSS is an extremely rare, neurodegenerative brain disorder.
It is almost always inherited and is found in only a few families around the world.
Onset of the disease usually occurs between the ages of 35 and 55.
In the early stages, patients may experience varying levels of ataxia lack of muscle coordination, including clumsiness, unsteadiness, and difficulty walking.
As the disease progresses, the ataxia becomes more pronounced and most patients develop dementia.
Other symptoms may include dysarthria slurring of speech, nystagmus involuntary movements of the eyes, spasticity rigid muscle tone, and visual disturbances, sometimes leading to blindness.
Deafness also can occur.
In some families, parkinsonian features are present.
GSS belongs to a family of human and animal diseases known as the transmissible spongiform encephalopathies TSEs.
Other TSEs include Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, kuru, and fatal familial insomnia.
What research is being done for Carpal?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, a part of the National Institutes of Health, is the federal government's leading supporter of biomedical research on neuropathy, including carpal tunnel syndrome.
Another NIH component, the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Disorders NIAMS, supports research on tissue damage associated with repetitive motion disorders, including carpal tunnel syndrome.
Scientists supported by the NINDS are studying the factors that lead to long-lasting neuropathies, and how the affected nerves are related to symptoms of pain, numbness, and functional loss.
Researchers also are examining biomechanical stresses that contribute to the nerve damage responsible for symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome in order to better understand, treat, and prevent this ailment.
By quantifying the distinct biomechanical pressures from fluid and anatomical structures, researchers are finding ways to limit or prevent carpal tunnel syndrome in the workplace and decrease other costly and disabling occupational illnesses.
How do I know if I have risk factors for heart disease?
Talk to your doctor or nurse about your risk factors for heart disease.
Ask about getting your cholesterol checked.
What Causes Congenital Heart Defects?
Heredity may play a role in some heart defects.
For example, a parent who has a congenital heart defect may be more likely than other people to have a child with the defect.
Rarely, more than one child in a family is born with a heart defect.
How do I stay connected withKnow Hepatitis B?
Join our partners for a Twitter Chat on October 15 at 2 PM EST by using #KnowHepB.
The chat will discuss the how community members, including Hep B United, are using the Know Hepatitis B campaign and raising awareness to get Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders tested for Hepatitis B.
For updates on the Twitter Chat, visit our Stay Connected page.
What is Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease?
Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease PMD is a rare, progressive, degenerative central nervous system disorder in which coordination, motor abilities, and intellectual function deteriorate.
The disease is one of a group of gene-linked disorders known as the leukodystrophies, which affect growth of the myelin sheath -- the fatty covering that wraps around and protects nerve fibers in the brain.
The disease is caused by a mutation in the gene that controls the production of a myelin protein called proteolipid protein-1 PLP1.
PMD is inherited as an X-linked recessive trait; the affected individuals are male and the mothers are carriers of the PLP1 mutation.
Severity and onset of the disease ranges widely, depending on the type of PLP1 mutation.
PMD is one of a spectrum of diseases associated with PLP1, which also includes Spastic Paraplegia Type 2 SPG2.
The PLP1-related disorders span a continuum of neurologic symptoms that range from severe central nervous system involvement PMD to progressive weakness and stiffness of the legs SPG2.
What Is the Prognosis?
The outlook for people diagnosed with Paget's disease is generally good, particularly if treatment is given before major changes have occurred in the affected bones.
Treatment can reduce symptoms but is not a cure.
Osteogenic sarcoma, a form of bone cancer, is an extremely rare complication that occurs in less than 1 percent of all patients with Paget's disease.
Who is at risk for hepatitis C?
people who received a transfusion of blood or blood products before July 1992, when sensitive tests to screen blood donors for hepatitis C were introduced.
Who needs to avoid drinking completely?
Have a health condition that can be made worse by drinking like liver disease.
What Do Sleep Studies Show?
Sleep studies allow doctors to look at sleep patterns and note sleep-related problems that patients don't know about or can't describe during routine office visits.
Sleep studies are needed to diagnose certain sleep disorders, such as sleep apnea and narcolepsy.
Who is at risk for getting head lice?
Head lice are found worldwide.
In the United States, infestation with head lice is most common among pre-school children attending child care, elementary schoolchildren, and the household members of infested children.
Although reliable data on how many people in the United States get head lice each year are not available, an estimated 6 million to 12 million infestations occur each year in the United States among children 3 to 11 years of age.
In the United States, infestation with head lice is much less common among African-Americans than among persons of other races, possibly because the claws of the of the head louse found most frequently in the United States are better adapted for grasping the shape and width of the hair shaft of other races.
What is a spinal cord injury?
Penetrating injuries, such as gunshot or knife wounds, damage the spinal cord; however, most traumatic injuries do not completely sever the spinal cord.
Instead, an injury is more likely to cause fractures and compression of the vertebrae, which then crush and destroy the axons that carry signals up and down the spinal cord.
A spinal cord injury can damage a few, many, or almost all of the axons that cross the site of injury.
A variety of cells located in and around the injury site may also die.
Some injuries in which there is little or no nerve cell death but only pressure-induced blockage of nerve signaling or only demyelination without axonal damage will allow almost complete recovery.
Others in which there is complete cell death across even a thin horizontal level of the spinal cord will result in complete paralysis.
How Can Kawasaki Disease Be Prevented?
Kawasaki disease can't be prevented.
However, most children who have the disease recover - usually within weeks of getting signs and symptoms.
Further problems are rare.
What Is High Blood Cholesterol?
Figure A shows the location of the heart in the body.
Figure B shows a normal coronary artery with normal blood flow.
The inset image shows a cross-section of a normal coronary artery.
Figure C shows a coronary artery narrowed by plaque.
The buildup of plaque limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood through the artery.
The inset image shows a cross-section of the plaque-narrowed artery.
If I have Chagas disease, should my family members be tested for the infection?
could have become infected the same way that you did, for example, by vectorborne transmission in Latin America;
Where can I find Most cholesterol in the body?
Most cholesterol in the body is in the form of LDL.
Q: I've heard it is more important to worry about carbohydrates than calories.
Is this true?
A: By focusing only on carbohydrates, you can still eat too many calories.
Also, if you drastically reduce the variety of foods in your diet, you could end up sacrificing vital nutrients and not be able to sustain the diet over time.
What should you expect after Stress Testing?
After stress testing, you'll be able to return to your normal activities.
If you had a test that involved radioactive dye, your doctor may ask you to drink plenty of fluids to flush it out of your body.
You shouldn't have certain other imaging tests until the dye is no longer in your body.
Your doctor can advise you further.
What is Binge drinking?
Binge drinking is a risk factor for sexual assault, especially among young women in college settings.
Who Is At Risk for Hypotension?
People who take certain medicines - such as diuretics water pills or other high blood pressure medicines - are at increased risk for hypotension.
Certain conditions also increase the risk for hypotension.
Examples include central nervous system disorders such as Parkinson's disease and some heart conditions.
I plan to travel to a rural area of Latin America that might have Chagas disease.
How can I prevent infection?
No drugs or vaccines for preventing infection are currently available.
Travelers who sleep indoors, in well-constructed facilities for example, air-conditioned or screened hotel rooms, are at low risk for exposure to infected triatomine bugs, which infest poor-quality dwellings and are most active at night.
Preventive measures include spraying infested dwellings with residual-action insecticides, using bed nets treated with long-lasting insecticides, wearing protective clothing, and applying insect repellent to exposed skin.
In addition, travelers should be aware of other possible routes of transmission, including bloodborne and foodborne.
What is Meningococcal meningitis caused by?
Meningococcal meningitis is caused by the bacterium Neisseria meningitides.
Is there any treatment for Polymyositis?
There is no cure for polymyositis, but the symptoms can be treated.
Options include medication, physical therapy, exercise, heat therapy including microwave and ultrasound, orthotics and assistive devices, and rest.
The standard treatment for polymyositis is a corticosteroid drug, given either in pill form or intravenously.
Immunosuppressant drugs, such as azathioprine and methotrexate, may reduce inflammation in people who do not respond well to prednisone.
Periodic treatment using intravenous immunoglobulin can also improve recovery.
Other immunosuppressive agents used to treat the inflammation associated with polymyositis include cyclosporine A, cyclophosphamide, and tacrolimus.
Physical therapy is usually recommended to prevent muscle atrophy and to regain muscle strength and range of motion.
What is Alzheimer's disease AD?
Alzheimer's disease AD is an age-related, non-reversible brain disorder that develops over a period of years.
What is Postural Tachycardia Syndrome?
Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome POTS is one of a group of disorders that have orthostatic intolerance OI as their primary symptom.
OI describes a condition in which an excessively reduced volume of blood returns to the heart after an individual stands up from a lying down position.
The primary symptom of OI is lightheadedness or fainting.
In POTS, the lightheadedness or fainting is also accompanied by a rapid increase in heartbeat of more than 30 beats per minute, or a heart rate that exceeds 120 beats per minute, within 10 minutes of rising.
The faintness or lightheadedness of POTS are relieved by lying down again.
Anyone at any age can develop POTS, but the majority of individuals affected between 75 and 80 percent are women between the ages of 15 to 50 years of age.
Some women report an increase in episodes of POTS right before their menstrual periods.
POTS often begins after a pregnancy, major surgery, trauma, or a viral illness.
It may make individuals unable to exercise because the activity brings on fainting spells or dizziness.
What is Hepatitis C?
Hepatitis C is a serious liver disease caused by the hepatitis C virus HCV.
What is Cardiac MRI?
Cardiac MRI is a common test.
What is Neurosarcoidosis?
Neurosarcoidosis is a manifestation of sarcoidosis in the nervous system.
What Are the Risks of Thoracentesis?
Pneumothorax.
This is a condition in which air collects in the pleural space the space between the lungs and chest wall.
Sometimes air comes in through the needle, or the needle makes a hole in the lung.
Usually, a hole will seal itself.
If enough air gets into the pleural space, however, the lung can collapse.
Your doctor may need to put a tube in your chest to remove the air and let the lung expand again.
How is fecal incontinence treated?
Treatment for fecal incontinence may include one or more of the following:
What is Hepatitis B?
Hepatitis B is a serious disease caused by a virus that attacks the liver.
What is An arrhythmia ah-RITH-me-ah?
An arrhythmia ah-RITH-me-ah is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat.
What is Heart failure?
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs.
What is Spasticcerebral palsy?
Spasticcerebral palsy is the most common type of the disorder.
What Are Asbestos-Related Lung Diseases?
Pleural plaque.
In this condition, the tissue around the lungs and diaphragm the muscle below your lungs thickens and hardens.
This tissue is called the pleura.
Pleural plaque usually causes no symptoms.
Rarely, as the pleura thickens, it can trap and compress part of the lung.
This may show up as a mass on an x-ray image.
What research is being done for Neurosarcoidosis?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS has joined with other institutes of the National Institutes of Health NIH to form a trans-NIH working group to coordinate and fund research into the disease mechanisms of sarcoidosis, predisposing factors, genetic underpinnings, and the potential for clinical therapies.
Grants are supporting research at major medical institutions across the country.
The outcomes of this research will be better ways to diagnose, treat, and ultimately cure sarcoidosis and neurosarcardoisis.
How Is Polycythemia Vera Diagnosed?
Polycythemia vera PV may not cause signs or symptoms for years.
The disease often is found during routine blood tests done for other reasons.
If the results of your blood tests aren't normal, your doctor may want to do more tests.
What is the large intestine?
The large intestine is part of the GI tract, a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus - a 1-inch-long opening through which stool leaves the body.
The body digests food using the movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes.
Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine - which includes the appendix, cecum, colon, and rectum - and anus.
The intestines are sometimes called the bowel.
The last part of the GI tract - called the lower GI tract - consists of the large intestine and anus.
What is Chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
How are children exposed to lead?
Lead-based paint and lead contaminated dust are the most hazardous sources of lead for U.S.
children.
Lead-based paints were banned for use in housing in 1978.
All houses built before 1978 are likely to contain some lead-based paint.
However, it is the deterioration of this paint that causes a problem.
Approximately 24 million housing units have deteriorated leaded paint and elevated levels of lead-contaminated house dust.
More than 4 million of these dwellings are homes to one or more young children.

What is the prognosis for Transverse Myelitis?
Most individuals will have only one episode of transverse myelitis.
Recovery usually begins within 2 to 12 weeks of the onset of symptoms and may continue for up to 2 years and in some cases longer--requiring aggressive physical therapy and rehabilitation.
However, if there is no improvement within the first 3 to 6 months, complete recovery is unlikely although some recovery can occur.
Historic data, shows that about one-third of people affected with transverse myelitis experience good or full recovery from their symptoms.
Another one-third show only fair recovery and are left with significant deficits.
The remaining one-third show no recovery at all, with marked dependence on others for basic functions of daily living.
New, more aggressive treatment protocols may result in greater recovery statistics.
Who Should Not be Vaccinated?
Who should not be vaccinated with MMR vaccine?
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Thrombocytopenia?
External bleeding usually is the first sign of a low platelet count.
External bleeding may cause purpura PURR-purr-ah or petechiae peh-TEE-key-ay.
Purpura are purple, brown, and red bruises.
This bruising may happen easily and often.
Petechiae are small red or purple dots on your skin.
When should adults with diarrhea see a health care provider?
Diarrhea is not usually harmful, but it can become dangerous or signal a more serious problem.
What research is being done for Myotonia Congenita?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS conducts research related to myotonia congenita and also supports additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country.
Current research is exploring how, at the molecular level, the defective gene in myotonia congenita causes the specific symptoms of the disorder.
Additional research is focused on developing animal models of the disorder to test potential treatments and therapies.
What is Prednisone?
Prednisone is an anti-inflammatory medicine.
What foods have fiber?
Examples of foods that have fiber include.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a metabolic bone disease marked by progressive decrease in bone density and strength.
What are Meningitis and Encephalitis?
Meningitis and encephalitis are inflammatory diseases of the membranes that surround the brain and spinal cord and are caused by bacterial or viral infections.
Viral meningitis is sometimes called aseptic meningitis to indicate it is not the result of bacterial infection and cannot be treated with antibiotics.
Symptoms of encephalitis include sudden fever, headache, vomiting, heightened sensitivity to light, stiff neck and back, confusion and impaired judgment, drowsiness, weak muscles, a clumsy and unsteady gait, and irritability.
Symptoms that might require emergency treatment include loss of consciousness, seizures, muscle weakness, or sudden severe dementia.
What should you do if you don't have soap and clean, running water?
Washing hands with soap and water is the best way to reduce the number of microbes on them in most situations.
If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.
Alcohol-based hand sanitizers can quickly reduce the number of microbes on hands in some situations, but sanitizers do not eliminate all types of germs.
What should you expect during Chest MRI?
Chest MRI usually is done at a hospital or at a special medical imaging facility.
A radiologist or other doctor with special training in this type of test oversees the testing.
What Is Peripheral Arterial Disease?
When plaque builds up in the body's arteries, the condition is called atherosclerosis ATH-er-o-skler-O-sis.
Over time, plaque can harden and narrow the arteries.
This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body.
What research is being done for Cerebral Arteriosclerosis?
The NINDS supports an extensive research program on stroke and conditions that can lead to stroke.
Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat conditions such as cerebral arteriosclerosis.
What research is being done for Brown-Sequard Syndrome?
The NINDS supports and conducts a wide range of research on spinal cord disorders such as BSS.
The goal of this research is to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure these disorders.
What is the prognosis for Chronic?
The course of CIDP varies widely among individuals.
Some may have a bout of CIDP followed by spontaneous recovery, while others may have many bouts with partial recovery in between relapses.
The disease is a treatable cause of acquired neuropathy and initiation of early treatment to prevent loss of nerve axons is recommended.
However, some individuals are left with some residual numbness or weakness.
What is ADHD?
Children with ADHD may have trouble paying attention, may act without thinking about what the result will be, or, in some cases, may be overly active.
Many children have trouble focusing and behaving at one time or another.
However, these symptoms may become a disorder if they continue over time and cause difficulty at school, at home, or with friends.
ADHD may put a child at risk for other concerns and conditions and the impact may continue into adulthood.
What is Sturge-Weber syndrome?
Sturge-Weber syndrome is a neurological disorder indicated at birth by a port-wine stain birthmark on the forehead and upper eyelid of one side of the face.
What research is being done for Restless?
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, a component of the National Institutes of Health, is the primary Federal sponsor of research on brain and nervous system disorders.
The NINDS seeks to increase scientific understanding of RLS, find improved methods of diagnosing and treating the syndrome, and discover ways to prevent it.
How is diarrhea treated?
Over-the-counter medicines such as loperamide Imodium and bismuth subsalicylate Pepto-Bismol and Kaopectate may help stop diarrhea in adults.
However, people with bloody diarrhea - a sign of bacterial or parasitic infection - should not use these medicines.
If diarrhea is caused by bacteria or parasites, over-the-counter medicines may prolong the problem, so doctors usually prescribe antibiotics instead.
How is Laser surgery mostly used?
Laser surgery mostly is used to treat smaller varicose veins.
What is Pompe Disease?
Pompe disease is a rare estimated at 1 in every 40,000 births, inherited and often fatal disorder that disables the heart and skeletal muscles.
It is caused by mutations in a gene that makes an enzyme called acid alpha-glucosidase GAA.
Normally, the body uses GAA to break down glycogen, a stored form of sugar used for energy.
The enzyme performs its function in intracellular compartments called lysosomes.
Lysosomes are known to function as cellular clearinghouses; they ingest multiple substances including glycogen, which is converted by the GAA into glucose, a sugar that fuels muscles.
In Pompe disease, mutations in the GAA gene reduce or completely eliminate this essential enzyme.
Excessive amounts of lysosomal glycogen accumulate everywhere in the body, but the cells of the heart and skeletal muscles are the most seriously affected.
Researchers have identified up to 300 different mutations in the GAA gene that cause the symptoms of Pompe disease, which can vary widely in terms of age of onset and severity.
The severity of the disease and the age of onset are related to the degree of enzyme deficiency.
What Are the Different Types of TBI?
Skull fractures can cause bruising of brain tissue called a contusion.
A contusion is a distinct area of swollen brain tissue mixed with blood released from broken blood vessels.
A contusion can also occur in response to shaking of the brain back and forth within the confines of the skull, an injury called .
contrecoup .
This injury often occurs in car accidents after high-speed stops and in shaken baby syndrome, a severe form of head injury that occurs when a baby is shaken forcibly enough to cause the brain to bounce against the skull.
In addition, contrecoup can cause diffuse axonal injury , also called shearing , which involves damage to individual nerve cells  neurons  and loss of connections among neurons.
This can lead to a breakdown of overall communication among neurons in the brain.
Want to Know More About Shingles?
The only way to reduce your risk of developing shingles and PHN is to get vaccinated.
Adults age 60 years or older can receive a single dose of the shingles vaccine called Zostavax.
It is available by prescription from a healthcare professional.
Talk with your doctor if you have questions about shingles vaccine.
What can consumers do to protect themselves from foodborne illness?
CLEAN: Wash your hands with soap and water before preparing food.
Wash cutting boards, dishes, utensils including knives, and counter tops with hot, soapy water after preparing each food item and before going on to the next food.
Wash produce.
Rinse fresh fruits and vegetables in running tap water to remove visible dirt and grime.
Remove and discard the outermost leaves of a head of lettuce or cabbage.
Because bacteria can grow well on the cut surface of fruit or vegetable, be careful not to contaminate these foods while slicing them up on the cutting board, and avoid leaving cut produce at room temperature for many hours.
Don't be a source of foodborne illness yourself.
Avoid preparing food for others if you yourself have a diarrheal illness.
Changing a baby's diaper while preparing food is a bad idea that can easily spread illness.
What Are Lung Function Tests?
Lung function tests also are used to check the extent of damage caused by conditions such as pulmonary fibrosis and sarcoidosis sar-koy-DOE-sis.
Also, these tests might be used to check how well treatments, such as asthma medicines, are working.
What is Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome?
Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome is a rare neurological disorder characterized by recurring facial paralysis, swelling of the face and lips usually the upper lip, and the development of folds and furrows in the tongue.
What Causes Mitral Valve Prolapse?
The exact cause of mitral valve prolapse MVP isn't known.
Most people who have the condition are born with it.
MVP tends to run in families.
Also, it's more common in people who are born with connective tissue disorders, such as Marfan syndrome.
What is influenza flu?
The flu is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses.
It can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death.
The best way to prevent the flu is by getting a flu vaccination each year.
What do moderate- and vigorous-intensity mean?
Moderate: While performing the physical activity, if your breathing and heart rate is noticeably faster but you can still carry on a conversation - it's probably moderately intense.
Examples include -
What are the symptoms of myasthenia gravis?
In most cases, the first noticeable symptom is weakness of the eye muscles.
In others, difficulty in swallowing and slurred speech may be the first signs.
The degree of muscle weakness involved in myasthenia gravis varies greatly among individuals, ranging from a localized form limited to eye muscles ocular myasthenia, to a severe or generalized form in which many muscles - sometimes including those that control breathing - are affected.
Symptoms, which vary in type and severity, may include a drooping of one or both eyelids ptosis, blurred or double vision diplopia due to weakness of the muscles that control eye movements, unstable or waddling gait, a change in facial expression, difficulty in swallowing, shortness of breath, impaired speech dysarthria, and weakness is the arms, hands, fingers, legs, and neck.
What Research is Being Done?
Within the Federal Government, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, one of the National Institutes of Health NIH, has primary responsibility for conducting and supporting research on normal and abnormal brain and nervous system development, including congenital anomalies.
The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, the National Institute of Mental Health, the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, the National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, and the National Institute on Drug Abuse also support research related to disorders of the developing nervous system.
Gaining basic knowledge about how the nervous system develops and understanding the role of genetics in fetal development are major goals of scientists studying congenital neurological disorders.
What is An endoscope?
An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing.
How Is a Stroke Treated?
Strokes and TIAs are medical emergencies.
If you have stroke symptoms, call 9 - 1 - 1 right away.
Do not drive to the hospital or let someone else drive you.
Call an ambulance so that medical personnel can begin life-saving treatment on the way to the emergency room.
During a stroke, every minute counts.
What is Hydranencephaly?
Hydranencephaly is a rare condition in which the brain's cerebral hemispheres are absent and replaced by sacs filled with cerebrospinal fluid.
What are Neurological Complications of Lyme Disease?
Lyme disease is caused by a bacterial organism that is transmitted to humans via the bite of an infected tick.
Most people with Lyme disease develop a characteristic skin rash around the area of the bite.
The rash may feel hot to the touch, and vary in size, shape, and color, but it will often have a bull's eye appearance a red ring with a clear center.
However, there are those who will not develop the rash, which can make Lyme disease hard to diagnose because its symptoms and signs mimic those of many other diseases.
What is the prognosis for Dementia?
There are many disorders that can cause dementia.
Some, such as Alzheimer's disease or Huntington's disease, lead to a progressive loss of mental functions.
But other types of dementia can be halted or reversed with appropriate treatment.
People with moderate or advanced dementia typically need round-the-clock care and supervision to prevent them from harming themselves or others.
They also may need assistance with daily activities such as eating, bathing, and dressing.
How can I get tested for HIV?
When you get tested, the nurse will take a sample of your blood or collect fluid from your mouth with a swab a stick with a soft tip.
Is there any treatment for Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies?
TSEs tend to progress rapidly and usually culminate in death over the course of a few months to a few years.
What is acute pancreatitis?
Acute pancreatitis is inflammation of the pancreas that occurs suddenly and usually resolves in a few days with treatment.
Acute pancreatitis can be a life-threatening illness with severe complications.
Each year, about 210,000 people in the United States are admitted to the hospital with acute pancreatitis.
The most common cause of acute pancreatitis is the presence of gallstones - small, pebble-like substances made of hardened bile - that cause inflammation in the pancreas as they pass through the common bile duct.
Chronic, heavy alcohol use is also a common cause.
Acute pancreatitis can occur within hours or as long as 2 days after consuming alcohol.
Other causes of acute pancreatitis include abdominal trauma, medications, infections, tumors, and genetic abnormalities of the pancreas.
What research is being done for Multifocal Motor Neuropathy?
The NINDS supports a broad range of research on neuromuscular disorders with the goal of finding ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them.
What is A toxicology screen?
A toxicology screen is a group of tests that shows which medicines and drugs you've taken and how much of them you've taken.
What is A chest CT scan?
A chest CT scan is a type of x ray.
What is Project CHOICES?
Project CHOICES is an extended brief motivational intervention for reducing alcohol-exposed pregnancies among women who are at high risk for such pregnancies.
What should I do if I am concerned about my child's exposure to lead?
If you suspect that your child has been exposed to a toy containing lead, remove the toy immediately.
The only way to tell if your child has been exposed to lead is to have the child's blood tested.
Your health care provider can advise whether such a test is needed and also can recommend treatment if your child has been exposed to lead.
How is Chagas disease treated?
Antiparasitic treatment is most effective early in the course of infection but is not limited to cases in the acute phase.
In the United States, this type of treatment is available through CDC.
Your health care provider can talk with CDC staff about whether and how you should be treated.
Most people do not need to be hospitalized during treatment.
What Causes Asthma?
The exact cause of asthma isn't known.
Researchers think some genetic and environmental factors interact to cause asthma, most often early in life.
These factors include:
What research is being done for Dyssynergia Cerebellaris Myoclonica?
The NINDS supports a broad range of research on neurodegenerative disorders such as Dyssynergia Cerebellaris Myoclonica.
The goals of this research are to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure these kinds of disorders.
Is there any treatment for Herpes Zoster Oticus?
Some cases of herpes zoster oticus do not require treatment.
When treatment is needed, medications such as antiviral drugs or corticosteroids may be prescribed.
Vertigo may be treated with the drug diazepam.
What is the prognosis for Encephalopathy?
Treating the underlying cause of the disorder may improve symptoms.
However, the encephalopathy may cause permanent structural changes and irreversible damage to the brain.
Some encephalopathies can be fatal.
What are the different types of Machado-Joseph Disease?
All persons with MJD have the same disease gene mutation: a DNA repeat expansion in the ATXN3 gene.
The wide range in symptoms among affected individuals led researchers to separate the disease into distinct types that are broadly distinguished by age of onset and range of symptoms.
Type I MJD is characterized by onset between about 10 and 30 years of age, with faster progression and more dystonia and rigidity than ataxia.
Type II, the most common type of MJD, generally begins between the ages of about 20 and 50 years, has an intermediate rate of progression, and causes various symptoms, including prominent ataxia, spastic gait, and enhanced reflex responses.
Individuals affected by type III MJD have the latest onset of disease beginning between approximately 40 and 70 years of age which progresses relatively slowly and is characterized as much by peripheral neuromuscular involvement muscle twitching, weakness, atrophy, and abnormal sensations such as numbness, tingling, cramps, and pain in the hands and feet as by ataxia.
Most individuals with MJD, but especially those with types I and II, experience one or more problems with vision, including double vision or blurred vision, loss of ability to distinguish color and/or contrast, and inability to control eye movements.
Some individuals also experience prominent Parkinson's disease-like symptoms, such as slowness of movement, rigidity or stiffness of the limbs and trunk, and tremor or trembling in the hands.
How Is Atelectasis Diagnosed?
Atelectasis usually is diagnosed by a radiologist, pulmonologist lung specialist, emergency medicine physician, or a primary care doctor such as a pediatrician, internal medicine specialist, or family practitioner.
Are Some People at Special Risk of Getting Too Much Vitamin A?
Studies suggest that taking dietary supplements is a common practice among many older adults.
However, the routine use of vitamin A supplements, as well as fortified foods, in older men and women is increasingly being questioned.
Older adults are at significant risk for osteoporosis and related fractures, and their serum blood levels of retinol increase with age.
As a result, fortified foods and supplements containing vitamin A in the form of beta-carotene may be a better choice for bone health in this population.
How Is Hemophilia Diagnosed?
If you or your child appears to have a bleeding problem, your doctor will ask about your personal and family medical histories.
This will reveal whether you or your family members, including women and girls, have bleeding problems.
However, some people who have hemophilia have no recent family history of the disease.
What else should I know about HPV vaccine?
HPV vaccine has a very good safety record [145 KB].
More than 67 million doses have been distributed in the U.S.
In the eight years since the vaccine was recommended, safety studies continue to show that HPV vaccines are safe.
Some preteens and teens may feel lightheaded, dizzy or like they may faint when getting any vaccine, including HPV vaccine.
After a preteen or teen gets a vaccine, it's a good idea to hang out for 15 minutes before leaving, just to make sure they don't get hurt if they do faint.
What is Cataplexy?
Cataplexy is a sudden loss of muscle tone while the person is awake that leads to feelings of weakness and a loss of voluntary muscle control.
What Are The Causes?
Although hemochromatosis can have other causes, in the United States the disease is usually caused by a genetic disorder.
A person who inherits the defective gene from both parents may develop hemochromatosis.
The genetic defect of hemochromatosis is present at birth, but symptoms rarely appear before adulthood.
Because one inherits genes from his or her parents, this type of the disease is also called hereditary hemochromatosis.
What research is being done for Encephalitis Lethargica?
The NINDS supports research on disorders that affect the brain, such as encephalitis lethargica, with the goal of finding ways to prevent and treat them.
The disease was the subject of the book and film, Awakenings..
Who is most likely to get disease fromBalamuthia?
Anyone can be exposed to Balamuthia through the environment.
This includes people who are healthy or those with weakened immune systems.
It is still unknown whether specific factors make people more susceptible to infection and disease from Balamuthia.
What is a peptic ulcer?
A peptic ulcer is a sore in the lining of your stomach or duodenum*.
The duodenum is the first part of your small intestine.
A peptic ulcer in the stomach is called a gastric ulcer.
One that is in the duodenum is called a duodenal ulcer.
A peptic ulcer also may develop just above your stomach in the esophagus, the tube that connects the mouth to the stomach.
But most peptic ulcers develop in the stomach or duodenum.
What are A lower GI series?
A lower GI series is an x ray that is used to look at the large intestine.
What is Alzheimer's Disease?
A progressive disease beginning with mild memory loss possibly leading to loss of the ability to carry on a conversation and respond to the environment.
How can I prevent aBalamuthia infection?
Currently, there are no known ways to prevent infection with Balamuthia since it is thought to occur worldwide in soil.
It is still unclear how and why some people develop disease after exposure while others do not.
What research is being done for Hereditary Neuropathies?
The NINDS supports research on neuromuscular disorders, such as hereditary neuropathies, aimed at learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.
Is there any treatment for Aicardi Syndrome?
There is no cure for Aicardi syndrome nor is there a standard course of treatment.
Treatment generally involves medical management of seizures and programs to help parents and children cope with developmental delays.
Long-term management by a pediatric neurologist with expertise in the management of infantile spasms is recommended.
What research is being done for Farber's Disease?
The National Library of Medicine NLM, a component of the National Institutes of Health NIH within the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, offers free searches of biomedical literature through an Internet service called PubMed.
Go to: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed.
The NLM also offers extensive health information from NIH and other trusted sources.
Go to: www.medlineplus.gov.
Where is West Nile virus a problem?
Almost all of the continental US has had human West Nile virus cases.
Some states, such as those with the darkest shades of blue on the map to the right, had greater concentrations of cases of severe disease than others represented in lighter colors in 2010.
This can change each year.
Some areas of the US are affected by other viruses such as eastern equine encephalitis virus, LaCrosse encephalitis virus and dengue.
Are you getting enough sleep?
Insufficient sleep is associated with a number of chronic diseases and conditions - such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity, and depression - which threaten our nation's health.
Not getting enough sleep is associated with the onset of these diseases and also may complicate their management and outcome.
What Are the Symptoms of Osteogenesis Imperfecta?
All people with osteogenesis imperfecta have brittle bones.
OI can range from mild to severe and symptoms vary from person to person.
Some of the symptoms that people with OI may have are:
How Is Osteoporosis Treated?
A balanced diet rich in calcium and vitamin D.
What is Sleep Apnea?
Sleep apnea is a common sleep disorder characterized by brief interruptions of breathing during sleep.
These episodes usually last 10 seconds or more and occur repeatedly throughout the night.
People with sleep apnea will partially awaken as they struggle to breathe, but in the morning they will not be aware of the disturbances in their sleep.
The most common type of sleep apnea is obstructive sleep apnea OSA, caused by relaxation of soft tissue in the back of the throat that blocks the passage of air.
Central sleep apnea CSA is caused by irregularities in the brain's normal signals to breathe.
Most people with sleep apnea will have a combination of both types.
The hallmark symptom of the disorder is excessive daytime sleepiness.
Additional symptoms of sleep apnea include restless sleep, loud snoring with periods of silence followed by gasps, falling asleep during the day, morning headaches, trouble concentrating, irritability, forgetfulness, mood or behavior changes, anxiety, and depression.
Not everyone who has these symptoms will have sleep apnea, but it is recommended that people who are experiencing even a few of these symptoms visit their doctor for evaluation.
Sleep apnea is more likely to occur in men than women, and in people who are overweight or obese.
What is An atrial septal defect ASD?
An atrial septal defect ASD is a hole in the part of the septum that separates the atria.
Who Needs Thoracentesis?
Other causes include lung cancer, tumors, pneumonia, tuberculosis, pulmonary embolism PULL-mun-ary EM-bo-lizm, and other lung infections.
Asbestosis as-bes-TOE-sis, sarcoidosis sar-koy-DO-sis, and reactions to some drugs also can lead to a pleural effusion.
What Causes Pulmonary Hypertension?
Some diseases and conditions also can cause group 1 PAH.
Examples include HIV infection, congenital heart disease, and sickle cell disease.
Also, the use of street drugs such as cocaine and certain diet medicines can lead to PAH.
What is the prognosis for Occipital Neuralgia?
Occipital neuralgia is not a life-threatening condition.
Many individuals will improve with therapy involving heat, rest, anti-inflammatory medications, and muscle relaxants.
Recovery is usually complete after the bout of pain has ended and the nerve damage repaired or lessened.
How is Alzheimer's disease treated?
Although there is no known cure for Alzheimer's disease, active medical management can improve the quality of life for individuals living with Alzheimer's disease and their caregivers.
What is Neuroacanthocytosis?
Neuroacanthocytosis refers to a group of genetic conditions that are characterized by movement disorders and acanthocytosis abnormal, spiculated red blood cells.
Four syndromes are classified as neuroacanthocytosis: Chorea-acanthocytosis, McLeod syndrome, Huntington's disease-like 2 HDL2, and panthothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration PKAN.
Acanthocytosis may not always be observed in HDL2 and PKAN.
These disorders are caused by different genetic mutations, and the signs and symptoms vary, but usually include chorea involuntary, dance-like movements, parkinsonism slowness of movement, dystonia abnormal body postures, and problems walking.
There may also be muscle weakness, involuntary movements of the face and tongue, tongue/lip biting which is mostly characteristic of Chorea-acanthocytosis, as well as difficulty with speech and eating, cognitive impairment, psychiatric symptoms, and seizures.
Individuals with McLeod syndrome often have cardiac problems.
Many features of these disorders are due to degeneration of the basal ganglia, a part of the brain that controls movement.
Additional disorders that are also known have neurologic symptoms, acanthocytosis, and either lipoprotein disorders or systemic findings.
The diagnosis of neuroacanthocytosis is typically based on the symptoms and clinical observation, a review of family history, and the evaluation of specific laboratory and imaging studies.
Who Needs Chest MRI?
Researchers are exploring ways to use chest MRI to study blood flow in the lungs.
The test may help detect early signs of pulmonary hypertension PH.
PH is increased pressure in the pulmonary arteries.
These arteries carry blood from your heart to your lungs to pick up oxygen.
My Teenage Son Loves Milk, But It Seems to Upset His Stomach.
Could He Have Lactose Intolerance?
Most kids with lactose intolerance are able to digest milk when it is served in small amounts, and combined with other foods like cereal.
They may tolerate other dairy products such as cheese or yogurt even if milk is a problem.
Lactose-free milk products are now available in most stores, and there are pills and drops you can add to milk and dairy products that make them easier to digest.
What Is Bronchitis?
People who have bronchitis often have a cough that brings up mucus.
Mucus is a slimy substance made by the lining of the bronchial tubes.
Bronchitis also may cause wheezing a whistling or squeaky sound when you breathe, chest pain or discomfort, a low fever, and shortness of breath.
What Are the Benefits of Having an Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator?
An ICD works well at detecting and stopping certain life-threatening arrhythmias.
An ICD can work better than drug therapy at preventing sudden cardiac arrest, depending on the cause of the arrest.
What causes indigestion?
Sometimes a person has indigestion for which a cause cannot be found.
This type of indigestion, called functional dyspepsia, is thought to occur in the area where the stomach meets the small intestine.
The indigestion may be related to abnormal motility - the squeezing or relaxing action - of the stomach muscle as it receives, digests, and moves food into the small intestine.
How is A blood smear used?
A blood smear is used to check the appearance of your platelets under a microscope.
What research is being done for Diabetic Neuropathy?
The NINDS conducts and supports research on diabetic neuropathy to increase understanding of the disorder and find ways to prevent and cure it.
New medications are currently being examined to assess improvement or stabilization of neuropathic symptoms.
What happens during a bone density test?
A bone density test is like an x-ray or scan of your body.
A bone density test doesn't hurt.
It only takes about 15 minutes.
Who Is at Risk for Thrombocytopenia?
People who are at highest risk for thrombocytopenia are those affected by one of the conditions or factors discussed in What Causes Thrombocytopenia? This includes people who:
What research is being done for Alexander Disease?
Recent discoveries show that most individuals approximately 90 percent with Alexander disease have a mutation in the gene that makes glial fibrillary acidic protein GFAP.
GFAP is a normal component of the brain, but it is unclear how the mutations in this gene causes the disease.
In most cases mutations occur spontaneously are not inherited from parents.
A small number of people thought to have Alexander disease do not have identifiable mutations in GFAP, which leads researchers to believe that there may be other genetic or perhaps even non-genetic causes of Alexander disease.
Current research is aimed at understanding the mechanisms by which the mutations cause disease, developing better animal models for the disorder, and exploring potential strategies for treatment.
At present, there is no exact animal model for the disease; however, mice have been engineered to produce the same mutant forms of GFAP found in individuals with Alexander disease.
These mice form Rosenthal fibers and have a predisposition for seizures, but do not yet mimic all features of human disease such as the leukodystrophies.
One clinical study is underway to identify biomarkers of disease severity or progression in samples of blood or cerebrospinal fluid.
Such biomarkers, if found, would be a major advantage for evaluating the response to any treatments that are developed in the future.
What is Hydrocephalus?
Hydrocephalus is a condition in which the primary characteristic is excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid CSF -- the clear fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord.
This excessive accumulation results in an abnormal dilation of the spaces in the brain called ventricles.
This dilation causes potentially harmful pressure on the tissues of the brain.
Hydrocephalus may be congenital or acquired.
Congenital hydrocephalus is present at birth and may be caused by genetic abnormalities or developmental disorders such as spina bifida and encephalocele.
Acquired hydrocephalus develops at the time of birth or at some point afterward and can affect individuals of all ages.
For example, hydrocephalus ex-vacuo occurs when there is damage to the brain caused by stroke or traumatic injury.
Normal pressure hydrocephalus occurs most often among the elderly.
It may result from a subarachnoid hemorrhage, head trauma, infection, tumor, or complications of surgery, although many people develop normal pressure hydrocephalus without an obvious cause.
Symptoms of hydrocephalus vary with age, disease progression, and individual differences in tolerance to CSF.
In infancy, the most obvious indication of hydrocephalus is often the rapid increase in head circumference or an unusually large head size.
In older children and adults, symptoms may include headache followed by vomiting, nausea, papilledema swelling of the optic disk, which is part of the optic nerve, downward deviation of the eyes called sunsetting, problems with balance, poor coordination, gait disturbance, urinary incontinence, slowing or loss of development in children, lethargy, drowsiness, irritability, or other changes in personality or cognition, including memory loss.
Hydrocephalus is diagnosed through clinical neurological evaluation and by using cranial imaging techniques such as ultrasonography, computer tomography CT, magnetic resonance imaging MRI, or pressure-monitoring techniques.
What if a child has fecal incontinence?
Children often develop constipation as a result of stool withholding.
They may withhold stool because they are stressed about toilet training, embarrassed to use a public bathroom, do not want to interrupt playtime, or are fearful of having a painful or unpleasant bowel movement.
Why is testing for Hepatitis B important?
Hepatitis B testing identifies people living with chronic Hepatitis B so they can get medical care, which can help prevent serious liver damage.
Testing also helps find other people who may not have Hepatitis B, but are at risk for getting infected.
This can include people living with someone with Hepatitis B.
These people can get the vaccine to prevent getting Hepatitis B.
What causes meningitis and encephalitis?
Equine encephalitis affects horses and humans.
Eastern equine encephalitis also infects birds that live in freshwater swamps of the eastern U.S.
seaboard and along the Gulf Coast.
In humans, symptoms are seen 4-10 days following transmission and include sudden fever, general flu-like muscle pains, and headache of increasing severity, followed by coma and death in severe cases.
About half of infected patients die from the disorder.
Fewer than 10 human cases are seen annually in the United States.
Western equine encephalitis is seen in farming areas in the western and central plains states.
Symptoms begin 5-10 days following infection.
Children, particularly those under 12 months of age, are affected more severely than adults and may have permanent neurologic damage.
Death occurs in about 3 percent of cases.
Venezuelan equine encephalitis is very rare in this country.
Children are at greatest risk of developing severe complications, while adults generally develop flu-like symptoms.
Epidemics in South and Central America have killed thousands of persons and left others with permanent, severe neurologic damage.
Q: How long will the HPV vaccine last?
A: Protection provided by HPV vaccine should be long-lasting.
Data from clinical trials and ongoing research show that HPV vaccine lasts in the body for at least 10 years without becoming less effective.
There is no evidence to suggest that HPV vaccine loses the ability to provide protection over time.
When Should I Call a Health Care Provider?
Most cases of pink eye are mild and get better without treatment.
However, some forms are more severe.
Severe cases need to be looked at by a health care provider and may require specific treatment and close follow-up.
If you have pink eye, you should see your health care provider if you have -
3.
Why can't I make my own weights for working out?
Many suggestions exist for home-made weights, ranging from lifting one-pound soup cans harmless for you and the soup, but it won't build muscle, to lifting buckets or gallon jugs filled with sand.
Please do not improvise! Plastic jugs and buckets are not made for strength training: they're not designed to hold that much weight and the handles are designed for carrying, not lifting.
They could easily break and injure you, not to mention impede your ability to perform an exercise with proper form and through the full range of motion.
What Kind of Doctor Treats Growth Plate Injuries?
For all but the simplest injuries, your child's doctor will probably refer him or her to an orthopaedic surgeon a doctor who specializes in bone and joint problems in children and adults for treatment.
Some problems may require the services of a pediatric orthopaedic surgeon, who specializes in injuries and musculoskeletal disorders in children.
What are the other forms of NCL?
Infantile NCL INCL or Santavuori-Haltia disease begins between about ages 6 months and 2 years and progresses rapidly.
Affected children fail to thrive and have microcephaly.
Also typical are short, sharp muscle contractions called myoclonic jerks.
These children usually die before age 5, although some have survived in a vegetative state a few years longer.
What is the prognosis for Tuberous?
The prognosis for individuals with TSC is highly variable and depends on the severity of symptoms.
Tthose individuals with mild symptoms usually do well and have a normal life expectancy, while paying attention to TSC-specific issues.
Individuals who are severely affected can suffer from severe mental retardation and persistent epilepsy.
What are the symptoms of the flu versus the symptoms of a cold?
In general, the flu is worse than the common cold, and symptoms such as fever, body aches, extreme tiredness, and dry cough are more common and intense.
Colds are usually milder than the flu.
People with colds are more likely to have a runny or stuffy nose.
Colds generally do not result in serious health problems, such as pneumonia, bacterial infections, or hospitalizations.
What is viral hepatitis?
Researchers are looking for other viruses that may cause hepatitis, but none have been identified with certainty.
Other viruses that less often affect the liver include cytomegalovirus; Epstein-Barr virus, also called infectious mononucleosis; herpesvirus; parvovirus; and adenovirus.
What is Cardioversion usually?
Cardioversion usually is a scheduled procedure.
What is Hepatitis B?
Hepatitis B is a liver disease spread through contact with blood, semen, or other body fluids from a person infected with the hepatitis B virus.
What Are the Signs and Symptoms of COPD?
Not everyone who has the symptoms above has COPD.
Likewise, not everyone who has COPD has these symptoms.
Some of the symptoms of COPD are similar to the symptoms of other diseases and conditions.
Your doctor can find out whether you have COPD.
Who Gets Heritable Disorders of Connective Tissue?
Heritable disorders of connective tissue can affect people of all ethnic groups.
All ages, and both sexes are affected.
Many of these disorders are rare.
Some may not be evident at birth, but only appear after a certain age or after exposure to a particular environmental stress.
Is there any treatment for Shingles?
In 2006, the Food and Drug Administration approved a VZV vaccine Zostavax for use in people 60 and older who have had chickenpox.
In March 2011, the FDA extended the approval to inlcude adults 50 to 59 as well.
Researchers found that giving older adults the vaccine reduced the expected number of later cases of shingles by half.
And in people who still got the disease despite immunization, the severity and complications of shingles were dramatically reduced.
The shingles vaccine is a preventive therapy and not a treatment for those who already have shingles or postherpetic neuralgia.
What is A liver biopsy?
A liver biopsy is a procedure that involves taking a small piece of liver tissue for examination with a microscope for signs of damage or disease.
The overall risk of developing an MRSA infection after influenza appears to be very low.
However, CDC continues to work with state and local public health authorities to better understand this association.
Following a healthy diet is an important part of a heart healthy lifestyle.
Guillain-Barre syndrome GBS is a rare disorder in which a person's own immune system damages their nerve cells, causing muscle weakness and sometimes paralysis.
GBS can cause symptoms that last for a few weeks.
Most people recover fully from GBS, but some people have permanent nerve damage.
In very rare cases, people have died of GBS, usually from difficulty breathing.
In the United States, for example, an estimated 3,000 to 6,000 people develop GBS each year on average, whether or not they received a vaccination.
Adult Refsum disease ARD is a rare genetic disease that causes weakness or numbness of the hands and feet peripheral neuropathy.
Due to a genetic abnormality, people with ARD disease lack the enzyme in peroxisomes that break down phytanic acid, a type of fat found in certain foods.
As a result, toxic levels of phytanic acid build up in the brain, blood, and other tissues.
The disease usually begins in late childhood or early adulthood with increasing night blindness due to degeneration of the retina retinitis pigmentosa.
If the disease progresses, other symptoms may include deafness, loss of the sense of smell anosmia, problems with balance and coordination ataxia, dry and scaly skin ichthyosis, and heartbeat abnormalities cardiac arrhythmias.
Some individuals will have shortened bones in their fingers or toes, or a visibly shortened fourth toe.
Although the disease usually appears in early childhood, some people will not develop symptoms until their 40s or 50s.
The cause of ASD, including Asperger syndrome, is not known.
Current research points to brain abnormalities in Asperger syndrome.
Using advanced brain imaging techniques, scientists have revealed structural and functional differences in specific regions of the brains of children who have Asperger syndrome versus those who do not have the disorder.
These differences may be caused by the abnormal migration of embryonic cells during fetal development that affects brain structure and 'wiring' in early childhood and then goes on to affect the neural circuits that control thought and behavior.
Hydrocephalus is diagnosed through clinical neurological evaluation and by using cranial imaging techniques such as ultrasonography, CT, MRI, or pressure-monitoring techniques.
A physician selects the appropriate diagnostic tool based on an individual's age, clinical presentation, and the presence of known or suspected abnormalities of the brain or spinal cord.
The National Institutes of Health NIH, through the collaborative efforts of its National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases NIAMS, and National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences NIEHS, conducts and supports a wide range of research on neuromuscular disorders, including the inflammatory myopathies.
The NINDS and NIAMS are funding DNA analyses using microarrays to characterize patterns of muscle gene expression among adult and juvenile individuals with distinct subtypes of inflammatory myopathies.
Findings will be used to refine disease classification and provide clues to the pathology of these disorders.
Other NIH-funded research is studying prior viral infection as a precursor to inflammatory myopathy.
Other research hopes to determine whether the drug infliximab, which blocks a protein that is associated with harmful inflammation, is safe and effective in treating dermatomyositis and polymyositis.
In general, adopting healthy habits-such as maintaining optimal weight, avoiding exposure to toxins, following a physician-supervised exercise program, eating a balanced diet, correcting vitamin deficiencies, and limiting or avoiding alcohol consumption-can reduce the physical and emotional effects of peripheral neuropathy.
Active and passive forms of exercise can reduce cramps, improve muscle strength, and prevent muscle wasting in paralyzed limbs.
Various dietary strategies can improve gastrointestinal symptoms.
Timely treatment of injury can help prevent permanent damage.
Quitting smoking is particularly important because smoking constricts the blood vessels that supply nutrients to the peripheral nerves and can worsen neuropathic symptoms.
Self-care skills such as meticulous foot care and careful wound treatment in people with diabetes and others who have an impaired ability to feel pain can alleviate symptoms and improve quality of life.
Such changes often create conditions that encourage nerve regeneration.
Blacks who are aware that they have HIV are not getting the medical care they need.
Data from 19 U.S.
areas show that only 1 in 3 blacks with a diagnosis of HIV are getting medical care and have viral suppression.
Viral suppression means the level of virus in your blood is low enough to help you stay healthy and greatly decrease the chance of spreading the virus to others.
Researchers are studying the reasons celiac disease affects people differently.
The length of time a person was breastfed, the age a person started eating gluten-containing foods, and the amount of gluten-containing foods one eats are three factors thought to play a role in when and how celiac disease appears.
Some studies have shown, for example, that the longer a person was breastfed, the later the symptoms of celiac disease appear.
Inherited LQTS usually is first detected during childhood or young adulthood.
Half of all people who have LQTS have their first abnormal heart rhythm by the time they're 12 years old, and 90 percent by the time they're 40 years old.
The condition rarely is diagnosed after age 40.
Without enough surfactant, the lungs collapse and the infant has to work hard to breathe.
He or she might not be able to breathe in enough oxygen to support the body's organs.
The lack of oxygen can damage the baby's brain and other organs if proper treatment isn't given.
For several decades the term 'tropical spastic paraparesis' TSP has been used to describe a chronic and progressive disease of the nervous system that affects adults living in equatorial areas of the world and causes progressive weakness, stiff muscles, muscle spasms, sensory disturbance, and sphincter dysfunction.
The cause of TSP was obscure until the mid-1980s, when an important association was established between the human retrovirus - human T-cell lymphotrophic virus type 1 also known as HTLV-1 - and TSP.
TSP is now called HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/ tropical spastic paraparesis or HAM/TSP.
The HTLV-1 retrovirus is thought to cause at least 80 percent of the cases of HAM/TSP by impairing the immune system.
In addition to neurological symptoms of weakness and muscle stiffness or spasms, in rare cases individuals with HAM/TSP also exhibit uveitis inflammation of the uveal tract of the eye, arthritis inflammation of one or more joints, pulmonary lymphocytic alveolitis inflammation of the lung, polymyositis an inflammatory muscle disease, keratoconjunctivitis sicca persistent dryness of the cornea and conjunctiva, and infectious dermatitis inflammation of the skin.
The other serious complication of HTLV-1 infection is the development of adult T-cell leukemia or lymphoma.
Nervous system and blood-related complications occur only in a very small proportion of infected individuals, while most remain largely without symptoms throughout their lives.
The disorder is characterized by recurrences and remissions, and successive recurrences may incapacitate the patient.
Due to the intensity of the pain, even the fear of an impending attack may prevent activity.
Trigeminal neuralgia is not fatal.
Metabolic syndrome.
Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raise your risk for stroke and other health problems, such as diabetes and heart disease.
The five metabolic risk factors are a large waistline abdominal obesity, a high triglyceride tri-GLIS-er-ide level a type of fat found in the blood, a low HDL cholesterol level, high blood pressure, and high blood sugar.
Metabolic syndrome is diagnosed if you have at least three of these metabolic risk factors.
Osteoporosis is a real risk for older Hispanics and Latinos.
There are many good sources of information about Paget's disease.
These include:
There is no known cure for Sjoegren's syndrome nor is there a specific treatment to restore gland secretion.
Treatment is generally symptomatic and supportive.
Moisture replacement therapies may ease the symptoms of dryness.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may be used to treat musculoskeletal symptoms.
For individuals with severe complications, corticosteroids or immunosuppressive drugs may be prescribed.
Cockroaches roaches and their droppings may cause asthma.
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS, a part of the National Institutes of Health, supports research about MSA through grants to major medical institutions across the country.
In 2007, the NINDS sponsored a consensus conference that brought together experts from around the world to review and update the diagnostic criteria for MSA.
These new diagnostic guidelines are helping doctors make quicker and more accurate diagnoses of MSA.
A great deal of research is ongoing to learn why synuclein buildup occurs in MSA and Parkinson's disease, and how to prevent it.
Benign essential blepharospasm BEB is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions and spasms of the eyelid muscles.
It is a form of dystonia, a movement disorder in which muscle contractions cause sustained eyelid closure, twitching or repetitive movements.
BEB begins gradually with increased frequency of eye blinking often associated with eye irritation.
Other symptoms may include increasing difficulty in keeping the eyes open, and light sensitivity.
Generally, the spasms occur during the day, disappear in sleep, and reappear after waking.
As the condition progresses, the spasms may intensify, forcing the eyelids to remain closed for long periods of time, and thereby causing substantial visual disturbance or functional blindness.
It is important to note that the blindness is caused solely by the uncontrollable closing of the eyelids and not by a dysfunction of the eyes.
BEB occurs in both men and women, although it is especially common in middle-aged and elderly women.
The prognosis depends on the specific subtype of congenital myasthenia, the muscles involved, and the age at onset of symptoms.
If a child has difficulty breathing, feeding, or swallowing, they may be vulnerable to pneumonia or respiratory failure.
In other cases, weakness is stable and does not worsen over time.
In one subtype, weakness improves with time.
Life-span is normal in most cases in which respiratory function is not compromised.
Always read the Nutrition Facts food label to find out the calorie content.
Remember, this is the calorie content for one serving of the food item, so be sure and check the serving size.
If you eat more than one serving, you'll be eating more calories than is listed on the food label.
For more information about the Nutrition Facts food label, visit How to Understand and Use the Nutrition Facts Food Label.
Rheumatoid arthritis is primarily a disease of the joints.
A joint is the point where two or more bones come together.
With a few exceptions in the skull and pelvis, for example, joints are designed to allow movement between the bones and to absorb shock from movements like walking or repetitive motions.
The ends of the bones are covered by a tough, elastic tissue called cartilage.
The joint is surrounded by a capsule that protects and supports it see illustration.
The joint capsule is lined with a type of tissue called synovium, which produces synovial fluid, a clear substance that lubricates and nourishes the cartilage and bones inside the joint capsule.
Ehrlichiosis is the general name used to describe several bacterial diseases that affect animals and humans.
Carbon monoxide, or CO, is an odorless, colorless gas that can cause sudden illness and death.
CLN3 mutation is the major cause of Juvenile NCL.
It's okay if you aren't sure - you can still get help.
Domestic violence agencies have counselors who are experts at helping people with questions about their relationships.
You don't even have to give your name.
A liver transplant is an operation to remove a diseased or an injured liver and replace it with a healthy one from another person, called a donor.
Bronchoscopy is a safe procedure.
Hormone therapy is a cancer treatment that removes hormones or blocks their action and stops cancer cells from growing.
For example, your doctor may put a special type of dye in the catheter.
The dye will flow through your bloodstream to your heart.
Then, your doctor will take x-ray pictures of your heart.
The dye will make your coronary heart arteries visible on the pictures.
This test is called coronary angiography an-jee-OG-rah-fee.
Help your child stay at a healthy weight by balancing what your child eats with physical activity.
Two of the best ways to prevent overweight and obesity in your child are to:
Anyone can get a foodborne illness.
However, some people are more likely to develop foodborne illnesses than others, including.
Carotid ka-ROT-id ultrasound is a painless and harmless test that uses high-frequency sound waves to create pictures of the insides of your carotid arteries.
If lifestyle changes aren't enough, your doctor may prescribe medicines.
Medicines are used to treat and control risk factors such as high blood pressure, high triglycerides, low HDL cholesterol, and high blood sugar.
The NINDS supports research on neuromuscular disorders such as KSS.
The goals of this research are to increase understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them.
The most promising approach for treatment in the future will be to alter replication or destroy abnormal mitochondria.
We know that many more women than men have lupus.
Lupus is two to three times more common in African American women than in Caucasian women and is also more common in women of Hispanic, Asian, and Native American descent.
African American and Hispanic women are also more likely to have active disease and serious organ system involvement.
In addition, lupus can run in families, but the risk that a child or a brother or sister of a patient will also have lupus is still quite low.
It is difficult to estimate how many people in the United States have the disease, because its symptoms vary widely and its onset is often hard to pinpoint.
Unfortunately, there is no cure for the disease.
There is no cure for Parkinson's disease.
Many patients are only mildly affected and need no treatment for several years after the initial diagnosis.
When symptoms grow severe, doctors usually prescribe levodopa L-dopa, which helps replace the brain's dopamine.
Sometimes doctors prescribe other drugs that affect dopamine levels in the brain.
In patients who are very severely affected, a kind of brain surgery known as pallidotomy has reportedly been effective in reducing symptoms.
Another kind of brain surgery, in which healthy dopamine-producing tissue is transplanted into the brain, is also being tested.
Finally, researchers are trying to identify substances that will prevent dopamine-producing brain cells from dying.
There are different ways to test for colorectal cancer.
Some tests are done every 1 to 2 years.
Other tests are done every 5 to 10 years.
Your doctor can help you decide which test is right for you and how often to get screened.
Fruits and vegetables are part of a well-balanced and healthy eating plan.
There are many different ways to lose or maintain a healthy weight.
Using more fruits and vegetables along with whole grains and lean meats, nuts, and beans is a safe and healthy one.
Helping control your weight is not the only benefit of eating more fruits and vegetables.
Diets rich in fruits and vegetables may reduce the risk of some types of cancer and other chronic diseases.
Fruits and vegetables also provide essential vitamins and minerals, fiber, and other substances that are important for good health.
Fibrous dysplasia is caused by a defective gene in the cells that form bone and other affected tissues.
The defect occurs at some point after conception, most likely early in fetal development.
This means that the disorder is not inherited from an affected person's parents, nor can an affected person with the condition pass it on to his or her children.
Smoking increases the risk of developing pancreatitis.
Pancreatitis is inflammation of the pancreas, which is located behind the stomach and close to the duodenum.
The pancreas secretes digestive enzymes that usually do not become active until they reach the small intestine.
When the pancreas is inflamed, the digestive enzymes attack the tissues of the pancreas.
Because the facial nerve has so many functions and is so complex, damage to the nerve or a disruption in its function can lead to many problems.
Symptoms of Bell's palsy can vary from person to person and range in severity from mild weakness to total paralysis.
These symptoms may include twitching, weakness, or paralysis on one or rarely both sides of the face.
Other symptoms may include drooping of the eyelid and corner of the mouth, drooling, dryness of the eye or mouth, impairment of taste, and excessive tearing in one eye.
Most often these symptoms, which usually begin suddenly and reach their peak within 48 hours, lead to significant facial distortion.
Autosomalrecessive inheritance occurs when both parents carry and pass on a copy of the faulty gene, but neither parent is affected by the disorder.
Each child born to these parents has a 25 percent chance of inheriting both copies of the defective gene, a 50 percent chance of being a carrier like the prents, and a 25 percent chance of not inheriting either copy of the defective gene.
Children of either gender can be affected by an autosomal recessive this pattern of inheritance.
Neuro-myelitis optica is a disorder associated with transverse myelitis as well as optic nerve inflammation.
Adults tend to have the chronic long-lasting type of ITP.
Women are two to three times more likely than men to develop chronic ITP.
Skin cancer is the most common type of cancer in the United States, yet most cases are preventable.
If your doctor suspects you have iron overload associated with hemochromatosis, there are two blood tests - serum transferrin saturation and ferritin levels - which may be used to help make the diagnosis.
The tests measure how much iron is in the body.
You can have these tests done in your doctor's office.
Angioplasty is a nonsurgical procedure that opens blocked or narrow coronary arteries.
Fibrous dysplasia is an uncommon disorder.
For Calories Used per Hour in Common Physical Activities Calories burned per hour will be higher for persons who weigh more than 154 lbs 70 kg and lower for persons who weigh less.
Source: Adapted from Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2005, page 16, Table 4 .,Calories Used per Hour in Common Physical Activities is Calories burned per hour will be higher for persons who weigh more than 154 lbs 70 kg and lower for persons who weigh less.
Source: Adapted from Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2005, page 16, Table 4 ., and Calories Used per Hour in Common Physical Activities is Calories burned per hour will be higher for persons who weigh more than 154 lbs 70 kg and lower for persons who weigh less.
Source: Adapted from Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2005, page 16, Table 4 .!
Physicians now use an array of traditional and new imaging technologies to uncover the presence of AVMs.
Angiography provides the most accurate pictures of blood vessel structure in AVMs.
The technique requires injecting a special water-soluble dye, called a contrast agent, into an artery.
The dye highlights the structure of blood vessels so that it can be recorded on conventional X-rays.
Although angiography can record fine details of vascular lesions, the procedure is somewhat invasive and carries a slight risk of causing a stroke.
Its safety, however, has recently been improved through the development of more precise techniques for delivering dye to the site of an AVM.
Superselective angiography involves inserting a thin, flexible tube called a catheter into an artery; a physician guides the tip of the catheter to the site of the lesion and then releases a small amount of contrast agent directly into the lesion.
The H5N1 Inventory should be used by those conducting surveillance in humans and animals as well as research on influenza H5N1 viruses as a reference for the identification of specific mutations in naturally occurring H5N1 viruses that may signal adaptation to mammalian species or alter susceptibility to existing antivirals.
Surveillance and research teams that identify viruses with mutations of concern should alert a relevant WHO Collaborating Center or an H5N1 reference laboratory and submit the virus for further characterization and risk assessment.
Contact information for these laboratories can be found on the World Health Organization WHO website and the OIE website.
Please ensure that your national veterinary services are informed when influenza viruses are detected in animals.
All H5N1 avian influenza viruses in poultry and all HPAI viruses in birds are notifiable to OIE; please consult http://www.oie.int/index.php?id=169&L=0&htmfile=chapitre_1.10.4.htm for further information about the definition of notifiable avian influenza.
Testing your home is the only way to know if your home has a radon problem.
Sleep apnea is a common disorder that causes pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep.
The possibilities for treatment depend on the specific subtype of congenital myasthenia.
Most treatments attempt to improve the signaling between nerve cell and muscle.
These drugs include pyridostigmine, fluoxetine, ephedrine, and 3,4-diaminopyridine.
Treatments to alter the immune system are not used for this form of myasthenia.
There are no treatments to cure the underlying genetic abnormality.
Trigeminal neuralgia is a sharp, stabbing, facial pain caused by MS affecting the trigeminal nerve as it exits the brainstem on its way to the jaw and cheek.
To check how blood is flowing to the heart muscle.
If part of the heart muscle isn't getting blood, it may be a sign of coronary heart disease CHD.
CHD can lead to chest pain called angina an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh, a heart attack, and other heart problems.
When a nuclear heart scan is done for this purpose, it's called myocardial perfusion scanning.
Medicines are used to stop your heart.
This allows the surgeons to operate on your heart while it's still.
A heart-lung bypass machine keeps oxygen-rich blood moving through your body during surgery.
Chiari malformations CMs are structural defects in the cerebellum, the part of the brain that controls balance.
When the indented bony space at the lower rear of the skull is smaller than normal, the cerebellum and brain stem can be pushed downward.
The resulting pressure on the cerebellum can block the flow of cerebrospinal fluid the liquid that surrounds and protects the brain and spinal cord and can cause a range of symptoms including dizziness, muscle weakness, numbness, vision problems, headache, and problems with balance and coordination.
Symptoms may change for some individuals depending on buildup of CNS and any resulting pressure on tissue and nerves.
CMs are classified by the severity of the disorder and the parts of the brain that protrude into the spinal canal.
The most common is Type I, which may not cause symptoms and is often found by accident during an examination for another condition.
Type II also called Arnold-Chiari malformation is usually accompanied by a myelomeningocele-a form of spina bifida that occurs when the spinal canal and backbone do not close before birth, causing the spinal cord to protrude through an opening in the back.
This can cause partial or complete paralysis below the spinal opening.
Type III is the most serious form of CM, and causes severe neurological defects.
Other conditions sometimes associated with CM include hydrocephalus, syringomyelia a fluid-filled cyst in the spinal cord, and spinal curvature.
Share your concerns with your child's doctor.
If you or your doctor think there could be a problem, ask for a referral to see a developmental pediatrician or other specialist, and contact your local early intervention agency for children under 3 or public school for children 3 and older to find out if your child qualifies for intervention services.
To find out who to speak to in your area, you can contact the National Dissemination Center for Children with Disabilities by logging on to www.nichcy.org/ or calling 1-800-695-0285.
For more information about what to do if you are concerned about your child's development visit If you're concerned at www.cdc.gov/concerned.
If there is a problem, it is very important to get your child help as soon as possible.
Improved emergency care for people with spinal cord injuries and aggressive treatment and rehabilitation can minimize damage to the nervous system and even restore limited abilities.
Respiratory complications are often an indication of the severity of spinal cord injury About one-third of those with injury to the neck area will need help with breathing and require respiratory support.
The steroid drug methylprednisolone appears to reduce the damage to nerve cells if it is given within the first 8 hours after injury.
Rehabilitation programs combine physical therapies with skill-building activities and counseling to provide social and emotional support.
Electrical simulation of nerves by neural prosthetic devices may restore specific functions, including bladder, breathing, cough, and arm or leg movements, though eligibility for use fo these devices depends on the level and type of the spinal cord injury.
Combination chemotherapy is the use of more than one anticancer drug.
Medicines, including those you can buy over the counter such as vitamins and herbal supplements, may have a stronger effect on you.
Your liver does not break medicines down as quickly as a healthy liver would.
Although stroke is a disease of the brain, it can affect the entire body.
Some of the disabilities that can result from a stroke include paralysis, cognitive deficits, speech problems, emotional difficulties, daily living problems, and pain.
The cause of UC is unknown though theories exist.
People with UC have abnormalities of the immune system, but whether these problems are a cause or a result of the disease is still unclear.
The immune system protects people from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances.
With UC, the body's immune system is believed to react abnormally to bacteria in the digestive tract.
UC sometimes runs in families and research studies have shown that certain gene abnormalities are found more often in people with UC.
You can prevent asbestos-related lung diseases by limiting your exposure to asbestos fibers.
If your job requires you to work around asbestos, make sure to follow workplace rules for handling it.
For example, make sure that air levels are measured, and wear a proper respirator to avoid breathing in asbestos fibers.
Most states require newborn screening.
But the number and types of tests are different in each state.
Depending on your family health history, you may want to ask for extra tests.
If you have narcolepsy, you may have one or more of these symptoms.
They can range from mild to severe.
Less than one-third of people who have narcolepsy have all four symptoms.
Air-conditioning is the number one protective factor against heat-related illness and death.
Many people believe that foods with no or minimal processing are better for their health.
Many people also believe that small, local farms are better sources of healthy food.
However, some types of processing are needed to protect health.
For example, consumers process raw meat, poultry, and fish for safety by cooking.
Similarly, when milk is pasteurized, it is heated just long enough to kill disease-causing germs.
Most nutrients remain after milk is pasteurized.
There are many local, small farms that offer pasteurized organic milk and cheese products.
Small changes can add up.
For example, losing just 10 pounds can lower your blood pressure.
To learn more, check out this guide to lowering high blood pressure [PDF - 269 KB].
Most people don't have any side effects after getting the flu vaccine.
Some people may have mild side effects.
These side effects begin soon after the vaccine is given and usually last 1 to 2 days.
These side effects aren't the flu.
Uncommon in people under age 40, Paget's disease grows more common with age.
The condition is more common in people of Anglo-Saxon descent in certain geographical areas, including England, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, and Western Europe.
It is not common in Scandinavia, China, Japan, or India.
Successful weight management programs for kids include counseling and education about eating a healthy diet and being physically active.
Parents have an important role to play in these programs, too.
Yes.
If you smoke or take NSAIDs, your ulcers may come back.
If you need to take an NSAID, your doctor may switch you to a different medicine or add medicines to help prevent ulcers.
Peripheral arterial disease P.A.D.
affects millions of people in the United States.
The disease is more common in African Americans than any other racial or ethnic group.
TN is typified by attacks that stop for a period of time and then return, but the condition can be progressive.
The attacks often worsen over time, with fewer and shorter pain-free periods before they recur.
Eventually, the pain-free intervals disappear and medication to control the pain becomes less effective.
The disorder is not fatal, but can be debilitating.
Due to the intensity of the pain, some individuals may avoid daily activities or social contacts because they fear an impending attack.
Nearly all cases of Rett syndrome are caused by a mutation in the methyl CpG binding protein 2, or MECP2 pronounced meck-pea-two gene.
Scientists identified the gene - which is believed to control the functions of many other genes - in 1999.
The MECP2 gene contains instructions for the synthesis of a protein called methyl cytosine binding protein 2 MeCP2, which is needed for brain development and acts as one of the many biochemical switches that can either increase gene expression or tell other genes when to turn off and stop producing their own unique proteins.
Because the MECP2 gene does not function properly in individuals with Rett syndrome, insufficient amounts or structurally abnormal forms of the protein are produced and can cause other genes to be abnormally expressed.
Prognosis for patients with childhood cerebral X-ALD is generally poor due to progressive neurological deterioration unless bone marrow transplantation is performed early.
Death usually occurs within 1 to 10 years after the onset of symptoms.
Adult-onset AMN will progress over decades.
For most healthy people who receive treatment soon after the outbreak of blisters, the lesions heal, the pain subsides within 3 to 5 weeks, and the blisters often leave no scars.
However, shingles is a serious threat in immunosuppressed individuals - for example, those with HIV infection or who are receiving cancer treatments that can weaken their immune systems.
People who receive organ transplants are also vulnerable to shingles because they are given drugs that suppress the immune system.
The wires in a biventricular pacemaker carry pulses from the generator to an atrium and both ventricles.
The pulses help coordinate electrical signaling between the two ventricles.
This type of pacemaker also is called a cardiac resynchronization therapy CRT device.
Hereditary pancreatitis can present in a person younger than age 30, but it might not be diagnosed for several years.
Episodes of abdominal pain and diarrhea lasting several days come and go over time and can progress to chronic pancreatitis.
A diagnosis of hereditary pancreatitis is likely if the person has two or more family members with pancreatitis in more than one generation.
Too much cholesterol in the blood, or high blood cholesterol, can be serious.
People with high blood cholesterol have a greater chance of getting heart disease.
Cholesterol can build up on the walls of your arteries blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to other parts of the body.
This buildup of cholesterol is called plaque.
Over time, plaque can cause narrowing of the arteries.
Vomiting phase.
This phase consists of intense nausea, vomiting, and retching.
Periods of vomiting and retching can last 20 to 30 minutes at a time.
The person may be subdued and responsive, immobile and unresponsive, or writhing and moaning with intense abdominal pain.
An episode can last from hours to days.
A peptic ulcer in the stomach is called a gastric ulcer.
One that occurs in the duodenum is called a duodenal ulcer.
People can have both gastric and duodenal ulcers at the same time.
They also can develop peptic ulcers more than once in their lifetime.
There is no cure for Alpers' disease and no way to slow its progression.
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
Anticonvulsants may be used to treat the seizures, but at times the seizures do not respond well to therapy, even at high doses.
Therefore, the benefit of seizure control should be weights against what could be excessive sedation from the anticonvulsant.
Valproate should not be used since it can increase the risk of liver failure.
Physical therapy may help to relieve spasticity and maintain or increase muscle tone.
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs.
Researchers found that giving older adults the vaccine reduced the expected number of cases of shingles by half.
And in people who still got the disease despite immunization, the severity and complications of shingles were dramatically reduced.
The Shingles Prevention Study - a collaboration between the Department of Veterans Affairs, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and Merck & Co., Inc.
- involved more than 38,000 veterans aged 60 and older.
The purpose was to find out how safe the vaccine is, and if it can prevent shingles.
Half the study participants were vaccinated with a more potent version of the chickenpox vaccine, developed specifically for use in adults, and half received a placebo vaccine.
Neither volunteers nor researchers knew if a particular subject had gotten active or placebo vaccine until after the end of the study a double-blind study.
Your blood is thicker or more likely to clot than normal.
Some inherited conditions such as factor V Leiden increase the risk of blood clotting.
Hormone therapy or birth control pills also can increase the risk of clotting.
The other type of flu vaccine - nasal-spray flu vaccine sometimes called LAIV for 'live attenuated influenza vaccine - is not recommended for people with inflammatory arthritis.
This vaccine is made with live, weakened flu viruses that do not cause the flu.
LAIV FluMist is approved for use in healthy people 2-49 years of age.
Eating tends to trigger contractions of the large intestine that push stool toward the rectum and also cause the rectum to contract for 30 to 60 minutes.
Both these events increase the likelihood that a person will pass gas and have a bowel movement soon after eating.
This activity may increase if the person is anxious.
People with fecal incontinence may want to avoid eating in restaurants or at social gatherings, or they may want to take antidiarrheal medications before eating in these situations.
Dysautonomia refers to a disorder of autonomic nervous system ANS function.
Most physicians view dysautonomia in terms of failure of the sympathetic or parasympathetic components of the ANS, but dysautonomia involving excessive ANS activities also can occur.
Dysautonomia can be local, as in reflex sympathetic dystrophy, or generalized, as in pure autonomic failure.
It can be acute and reversible, as in Guillain-Barre syndrome, or chronic and progressive.
Several common conditions such as diabetes and alcoholism can include dysautonomia.
Dysautonomia also can occur as a primary condition or in association with degenerative neurological diseases such as Parkinson's disease.
Other diseases with generalized, primary dysautonomia include multiple system atrophy and familial dysautonomia.
Hallmarks of generalized dysautonomia due to sympathetic failure are impotence in men and a fall in blood pressure during standing orthostatic hypotension.
Excessive sympathetic activity can present as hypertension or a rapid pulse rate.
Approximately 20,000 Americans - or one in every 100,000 people over the age of 60 - have PSP, making it much less common than Parkinson's disease, which affects more than 500,000 Americans.
Affected individuals are usually middle-aged or elderly, and men are affected more often than women.
PSP is often difficult to diagnose because its symptoms can be very much like those of other, more common movement disorders, and because some of the most characteristic symptoms may develop late or not at all.
Many children with NF1 have larger than normal head circumference and are shorter than average.
Hydrocephalus, the abnormal buildup of fluid in the brain, is a possible complication of the disorder.
Headache and epilepsy are also more likely in individuals with NF1 than in the healthy population.
Cardiovascular complications associated with NF1 include congenital heart defects, high blood pressure hypertension, and constricted, blocked, or damaged blood vessels vasculopathy.
Children with NF1 may have poor language and visual-spatial skills, and perform less well on academic achievement tests, including those that measure reading, spelling, and math skills.
Learning disabilities, such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD, are common in children with NF1.
An estimated 3 to 5 percent of tumors may become cancerous, requiring aggressive treatment.
These tumors are called malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors.
Angina is a symptom of an underlying heart problem.
It's usually a symptom of coronary heart disease CHD, but it also can be a symptom of coronary microvascular disease MVD.
So, if you're at risk for CHD or coronary MVD, you're also at risk for angina.
A carotid endarterectomy is a surgical procedure in which a doctor removes fatty deposits blocking one of the two carotid arteries, the main supply of blood for the brain.
Carotid artery problems become more common as people age.
The disease process that causes the buildup of fat and other material inside the artery walls is called atherosclerosis, popularly known as hardening of the arteries.
The fatty deposit is called plaque; the narrowing of the artery is called stenosis.
The degree of stenosis is usually expressed as a percentage of the normal diameter of the opening.
Most people with myotonia congenita don't require special treatments.
Stiff muscles usually resolve with exercise, or light movement, especially after resting.
For individuals whose symptoms are more limiting, doctors have had some success with medications such as quinine, or anticonvulsant drugs such as phenytoin.
Physical therapy and other rehabilitative therapies are also sometimes used to improve muscle function.
What Do Bone Marrow Tests Show?
Your doctor will combine information from your bone marrow tests with information from a physical exam, blood tests, and other tests, such as imaging scans and x rays.
This information will help your doctor diagnose your condition and plan how to treat it.
Guillain-Barre syndrome GBS is a disorder in which the body's immune system attacks part of the peripheral nervous system.
What is The knee capsule?
The knee capsule is a protective, fiber-like structure that wraps around the knee joint.
What does Warning: NSAIDs cause?
Warning: NSAIDs can cause stomach irritation or, less often, they can affect kidney function.
What does Spondylolisthesis cause?
Spondylolisthesis may cause not only low back pain but also severe sciatica leg pain.
What is Calcitonin?
Calcitonin is a hormone involved in calcium regulation and bone metabolism.
What is CHD?
CHD is a condition in which a waxy substance called plaque plak builds up inside the coronary arteries.
What is CHD?
CHD is a disease in which plaque plak builds up on the inner walls of your coronary arteries.
What is CHD?
CHD is a condition in which a waxy substance called plaque plak builds up in the coronary heart arteries.
What is CHD?
CHD is a condition in which a waxy substance called plaque builds up inside of the coronary arteries.
What is CHD?
CHD is a condition in which a waxy substance called plaque plak builds up inside your coronary arteries.
What is CHD?
CHD is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque plak builds up inside the coronary arteries.
What is CHD?
CHD is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque plak builds up in the coronary arteries.
What is CHD?
CHD is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the coronary arteries.
What is Osteonecrosis?
Osteonecrosis is a disease resulting from the temporary or permanent loss of blood supply to the bones.
What is Using corticosteroid medications?
Using corticosteroid medications is a risk factor for developing osteonecrosis.
What is Prediabetes?
Prediabetes is a condition in which your blood sugar level is higher than normal, but not as high as it is in diabetes.
What is Prediabetes?
Prediabetes is a wake-up call that type 2 diabetes could be in your future, but you can still prevent it.
What is Preeclampsia?
Preeclampsia is a heart disease risk factor that you can't control.
What is Preeclampsia?
Preeclampsia is a condition that can develop during pregnancy.
What is An arrhythmia?
An arrhythmia is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat.
What is Angioplasty?
Angioplasty is a nonsurgical procedure that opens blocked or narrowed coronary arteries.
What is Angioplasty?
Angioplasty is a nonsurgical procedure that opens blocked or narrow coronary arteries.
What is Angioplasty?
Angioplasty is a procedure used to open narrowed or blocked coronary heart arteries and treat an ongoing heart attack.
What is CABG?
CABG is a type of surgery.
What is CABG?
CABG is a type of surgery in which a healthy artery or vein from the body is connected, or grafted, to a blocked coronary artery.
What is Cardiac rehab?
Cardiac rehab is a medically supervised program that can improve the health and well-being of people who have heart problems.
What is Cardiac rehab?
Cardiac rehab is a medically supervised program that can help improve the health and well-being of people who have heart problems.
What is Cardiac rehab?
Cardiac rehab is a medically supervised program that may help improve the health and well-being of people who have heart problems.
What is Cardiac rehab?
Cardiac rehab is a medically supervised program that helps improve the health and well-being of people who have heart problems.
What is Hemolytic anemia?
Hemolytic anemia is a type of anemia.
What is Hemolytic anemia?
Hemolytic anemia is a condition in which red blood cells are destroyed faster than the body can replace them.
What is Sickle cell anemia?
Sickle cell anemia is a serious, inherited disease.
What is Rh factor?
Rh factor is a protein on red blood cells.
What does More severe hemolytic anemia cause?
More severe hemolytic anemia may cause many signs and symptoms, and they may be serious.
What does Bilirubin also cause?
Bilirubin also causes urine to be dark yellow or brown.
What is A systemic vasculitis?
A systemic vasculitis is a type of vasculitis that affects you in a general or overall way.
What is Takayasu's arteritis?
Takayasu's arteritis is a systemic disease.
What is Wegener's granulomatosis?
Wegener's granulomatosis is a rare type of vasculitis.
What does PMR typically cause?
PMR typically causes stiffness and pain in the muscles of the neck, shoulders, lower back, hips, and thighs.
What is Cirrhosis?
Cirrhosis is a condition in which the liver slowly deteriorates and is unable to function normally due to chronic, or long lasting, injury.
What is Cirrhosis?
Cirrhosis is a condition in which the liver slowly deteriorates and is unable to function normally due to chronic injury.
What is Portal hypertension?
Portal hypertension is a common complication of cirrhosis.
What does Portal hypertension cause?
Portal hypertension may cause enlarged blood vessels in the esophagus, stomach, or both.
What does Portal hypertension cause?
Portal hypertension may cause the spleen to enlarge and retain white blood cells and platelets, reducing the numbers of these cells and platelets in the blood.
What does Cirrhosis cause?
Cirrhosis causes resistance to insulin.
What does Cirrhosis cause?
Cirrhosis can cause immune system dysfunction, leading to an increased chance of infection.
What is PPA?
PPA is a language disorder not to be confused with the aphasia that can result from a stroke.
What does Behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia cause?
Behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia causes a person to undergo behavior and personality changes.
What is Diabetic cardiomyopathy?
Diabetic cardiomyopathy is a disease that damages the structure and function of the heart.
What is Atherosclerosis?
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside the arteries.
What is Atherosclerosis?
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which a fatty substance called plaque plak builds up inside the arteries.
What is Atherosclerosis?
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque builds up inside your arteries.
What is Atherosclerosis?
Atherosclerosis is a major cause of damage to the blood vessel walls.
What is Atherosclerosis?
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up in your arteries.
What is Atherosclerosis?
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque plak builds up in the arteries.
What does Living with DHD cause?
Living with DHD may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What does Sickle hemoglobin cause?
Sickle hemoglobin causes red blood cells to develop a sickle, or crescent, shape.
What is TLC?
TLC is a three-part program that includes a healthy diet, physical activity, and weight management.
What is TLC?
TLC is a three-part program that includes a healthy diet, weight management, and physical activity.
What is TLC?
TLC is a set of lifestyle changes that can help you lower your LDL cholesterol.
What is Excessive blood clotting?
Excessive blood clotting is a condition in which blood clots form too easily or don't dissolve properly.
What is Blood clotting?
Blood clotting is a complex process, but it mainly involves:
What is Heparin?
Heparin is a medicine commonly used to prevent blood clots.
What is PE?
PE is a serious condition that can damage your lungs and other organs and cause low oxygen levels in your blood.
What is PE?
PE is a serious condition that can:
What is PE?
PE is a very serious condition.
What is PE?
PE is a serious condition that can cause low blood oxygen levels, damage to the lungs, or even death.
What is Warfarin?
Warfarin is a type of blood thinner.
What is Angina usually?
Angina usually is a symptom of coronary heart disease CHD.
What is This type of angina?
This type of angina is a sign that a heart attack may happen soon.
What is Angina?
Angina is a symptom of an underlying heart problem.
What is Angina?
Angina is a symptom of an underlying heart problem, usually coronary heart disease CHD.
What is HCM?
HCM is a common cause of sudden cardiac arrest SCA in young people, including young athletes.
What is A pediatric cardiologist?
A pediatric cardiologist is a cardiologist who treats children.
What is A pediatric cardiologist?
A pediatric cardiologist is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating heart problems in children.
What is A pediatric cardiologist?
A pediatric cardiologist is a doctor who specializes in treating children who have heart problems.
What is SCA?
SCA is a complication of cardiomyopathy..
What is SCA?
SCA is a condition in which the heart suddenly stops beating for no obvious reason.
What is SCA?
SCA is a condition in which the heart suddenly stops beating.
What is SCA?
SCA is a condition in which the heart suddenly and unexpectedly stops beating.
What does Juvenile idiopathic arthritis cause?
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis can cause swelling, pain, damage to the joints, and, in some cases, damage to other parts of the body.
What is Carotid endarterectomy?
Carotid endarterectomy is a surgical procedure in which a doctor removes fatty deposits plaque from the inside of one of the carotid arteries, which are located in the neck and are the main suppliers of blood to the brain.
What does Pregnancy and childbirth cause?
Pregnancy and childbirth cause strokes in approximately eight in 100,000 women.
What does PH cause?
PH causes symptoms such as shortness of breath during routine activity for example, climbing two flights of stairs, tiredness, chest pain, and a racing heartbeat.
What does Living with PH cause?
Living with PH may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What does ISH cause?
ISH can cause as much harm as HBP in which both numbers are too high.
What does HBP cause?
HBP can cause:
What does However, HBP cause?
However, HBP can cause problems for both the mother and the fetus.
What is Epilepsy?
Epilepsy is a brain disorder in which clusters of nerve cells, or neurons, in the brain sometimes signal abnormally.
What is Epilepsy?
Epilepsy is a disorder with many possible causes.
What is The vagus nerve stimulator?
The vagus nerve stimulator is a battery-powered device that is surgically implanted under the skin of the chest, much like a pacemaker, and is attached to the vagus nerve in the lower neck.
What is Status epilepticus?
Status epilepticus is a potentially life-threatening condition in which a person either has an abnormally prolonged seizure or does not fully regain consciousness between recurring seizures.
What does While any seizure is cause?
While any seizure is cause for concern, having a seizure does not by itself mean a person has epilepsy.
What is Rectocele?
Rectocele is a condition that causes the rectum to protrude through the vagina.
What is A stool diary?
A stool diary is a chart for recording daily bowel movement details.
What does Childbirth sometimes cause?
Childbirth sometimes causes injuries to muscles and nerves in the pelvic floor.
What does Fecal incontinence cause?
Fecal incontinence can cause embarrassment, fear, and loneliness.
What is CML?
CML is a clonal panmyelopathy that involves all hematopoietic cell lineages.
What is Nucleophosmin NPM1 mutations: NPM1?
Nucleophosmin NPM1 mutations: NPM1 is a protein that has been linked to ribosomal protein assembly and transport as well as being a molecular chaperone involved in preventing protein aggregation in the nucleolus.
What does Because arsenic trioxide cause?
Because arsenic trioxide causes QT interval prolongation that can lead to life-threatening arrhythmias e.g., torsades de pointes,[58] it is essential to monitor electrolytes closely in patients receiving arsenic trioxide and to maintain potassium and magnesium values at midnormal ranges.[59].
What is An ileostomy?
An ileostomy is a stoma created from a part of the ileum.
What is A colostomy?
A colostomy is a stoma created from a part of the colon.
What is Creating the Kock pouch?
Creating the Kock pouch is a delicate surgical procedure that requires a healthy bowel for proper healing.
What is Carotid ultrasound?
Carotid ultrasound is a painless and harmless test that uses sound waves to create pictures of the insides of your carotid arteries.
What is Carotid ultrasound?
Carotid ultrasound is a painless test.
What is Coil embolization?
Coil embolization is a less complex procedure for treating an aneurysm.
What is An AVM?
An AVM is a tangle of faulty arteries and veins that can rupture within the brain. AVM repair helps prevent further bleeding in the brain.
What does The coil will cause?
The coil will cause a blood clot to form, which will block blood flow through the aneurysm and prevent it from bursting again.
What does Living with CHD cause?
Living with CHD may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is Although osteoarthritis?
Although osteoarthritis is a disease of the joints, its effects are not just physical.
What is IE?
IE is a serious infection of the inner lining of the heart chambers and valves.
What does An ASD cause?
An ASD causes the right side of the heart to work harder because it has to pump extra blood to the lungs.
What does Large VSDs often cause?
Large VSDs often cause symptoms in infants and children.
What is PSVT?
PSVT is a very fast heart rate that begins and ends suddenly.
What is PSVT?
PSVT is a fast heart rate that begins and ends suddenly.
What is Ventricular tachycardia?
Ventricular tachycardia is a fast, regular beating of the ventricles that may last for only a few seconds or for much longer.
What does Many arrhythmias cause?
Many arrhythmias cause no signs or symptoms.
What does Aspiration pneumonia cause?
Aspiration pneumonia can cause pus to form in a cavity in the lung.
What does Pneumonia cause?
Pneumonia may cause fluid to build up in the pleural space.
What does Pneumonia cause?
Pneumonia can cause the fluid to become infected - a condition called empyema em-pi-E-ma.
What is Although Paget's?
Although Paget's is a disease of bone, its complications can affect other body parts and functions, as well.
What does When Paget's disease cause?
When Paget's disease causes bones to be fragile, even a minor fall can cause a painful fracture.
What is Persistent AF?
Persistent AF is a condition in which the abnormal heart rhythm continues for more than a week.
What is Permanent AF?
Permanent AF is a condition in which a normal heart rhythm can't be restored with treatment.
What does In some people, AF cause?
In some people, AF can cause chest pain or heart failure, especially if the heart rhythm is very rapid.
What is Cyanosis?
Cyanosis is a bluish tint to the skin, lips, and fingernails.
What is Cyanosis?
Cyanosis is a bluish tint to the skin, lips, and fingernails..
What is ITP?
ITP is a bleeding disorder in which the blood doesn't clot as it should.
What does Severe thrombocytopenia cause?
Severe thrombocytopenia can cause bleeding in almost any part of the body.
What is Tetralogy of Fallot?
Tetralogy of Fallot is a rare, complex heart defect.
What is A VSD?
A VSD is a hole in the septum between the heart's two lower chambers, the ventricles.
What is Anemia?
Anemia is a common condition.
What does Mild to moderate anemia cause?
Mild to moderate anemia may cause very mild symptoms or none at all.
What does Anemia also cause?
Anemia also can cause many other health problems.
What is Primary biliary cirrhosis?
Primary biliary cirrhosis is a chronic, or long lasting, disease that causes the small bile ducts in the liver to become inflamed and damaged and ultimately disappear.
What is Primary biliary cirrhosis?
Primary biliary cirrhosis is a chronic disease that causes the small bile ducts in the liver to become inflamed and damaged and ultimately disappear.
What is Ursodiol?
Ursodiol is a nontoxic bile acid that people can take orally.
What does Primary biliary cirrhosis cause?
Primary biliary cirrhosis causes the small bile ducts in the liver to become inflamed and damaged and ultimately disappear.
What does Sometimes varicose veins cause?
Sometimes varicose veins cause mild to moderate pain, blood clots, skin ulcers sores, or other problems.
What does Sometimes varicose veins cause?
Sometimes varicose veins cause pain, blood clots, skin ulcers, or other problems.
What does If varicose veins cause?
If varicose veins cause few symptoms, your doctor may simply suggest making lifestyle changes.
What is IPF?
IPF is a serious disease that usually affects middle-aged and older adults.
What is GERD?
GERD is a condition in which acid from your stomach backs up into your throat.
What does Living with IPF cause?
Living with IPF may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is COPD?
COPD is a major cause of disability, and it's the third leading cause of death in the United States.
What does COPD cause?
COPD can cause coughing that produces large amounts of mucus a slimy substance, wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and other symptoms.
What does At first, COPD cause?
At first, COPD may cause no symptoms or only mild symptoms.
What does Severe COPD cause?
Severe COPD can cause other symptoms, such as swelling in your ankles, feet, or legs; weight loss; and lower muscle endurance.
What does Living with COPD cause?
Living with COPD may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is Wheezing?
Wheezing is a whistling or squeaky sound that occurs when you breathe.
What is Asthma?
Asthma is a long-term disease that has no cure.
What is Asthma?
Asthma is a disease that affects your lungs.
What is Asthma?
Asthma is a lifelong disease that affects the lungs.
What is Asthma?
Asthma is a leading chronic illness among children and youth in the United States.
What is Asthma?
Asthma is a lung disease that is caused by chronic inflammation of the airways.
What does Asthma cause?
Asthma causes recurring periods of wheezing a whistling sound when you breathe, chest tightness, shortness of breath, and coughing.
What does Asthma cause?
Asthma causes wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness, and coughing at night or early in the morning.
What is Folic acid?
Folic acid is a B vitamin that helps build healthy red blood cells.
What is Folic acid?
Folic acid is a vitamin that can prevent birth defects.
What is Folic acid?
Folic acid is a B vitamin.
What does Thalassemias cause?
Thalassemias cause the body to make fewer healthy red blood cells and less hemoglobin HEE-muh-glow-bin than normal.
What does This form of thalassemia cause?
This form of thalassemia causes moderate to severe anemia.
What does Thalassemia cause?
Thalassemia may cause bone marrow to expand.
What does Transfusions cause?
Transfusions can cause iron to build up in the blood iron overload.
What is Although FA?
Although FA is a blood disorder, it also can affect many of your body's organs, tissues, and systems.
What is FA?
FA is a type of aplastic anemia.
What is FA?
FA is a life-threatening illness.
What does FA also cause?
FA also can cause your bone marrow to make many faulty blood cells.
What does FA cause?
FA can cause missing, oddly shaped, or three or more thumbs.
What does FA cause?
FA can cause birth defects that affect the arms, thumbs, hips, legs, and other parts of the body.
What is Pneumothorax?
Pneumothorax is a serious condition.
What is TSC?
TSC is a genetic disease.
What is LAM?
LAM is a rare disease that mostly affects women of childbearing age.
What is LAM?
LAM is a tumor-like disorder in which cells proliferate in the lungs, and there is lung destruction with cyst formation There is a range of symptoms with LAM, with many TSC individuals having no symptoms, while others suffer with breathlessness, which can progress and be severe.
What does A collapsed lung cause?
A collapsed lung can cause pain and shortness of breath.
What does Living with LAM cause?
Living with LAM may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is Wilson disease?
Wilson disease is a genetic disease that prevents the body from removing extra copper.
What is A VAD?
A VAD is a mechanical pump that is used to support heart function and blood flow in people who have weak hearts.
What does Stimulant laxatives cause?
Stimulant laxatives cause the intestines to contract, which moves stool.
What does Iron supplements cause?
Iron supplements can cause side effects, such as dark stools, stomach irritation, and heartburn.
What does Iron also cause?
Iron also can cause constipation, so your doctor may suggest that you use a stool softener.
What is Marfan syndrome?
Marfan syndrome is a condition in which your body's connective tissue is abnormal.
What is Marfan syndrome?
Marfan syndrome is a genetic disorder.
What is Fibrillin?
Fibrillin is a protein that plays a major role in your body's connective tissue.
What is A cardiologist?
A cardiologist is a heart specialist.
What is Aortic dissection?
Aortic dissection is a life-threatening condition.
What does Aortic dissection cause?
Aortic dissection can cause severe pain in either the front or back of the chest or abdomen.
What does Marfan syndrome cause?
Marfan syndrome can cause many eye problems.
What does Marfan syndrome cause?
Marfan syndrome can cause sudden pneumothorax noo-mo-THOR-aks, or collapsed lung.
What does Marfan syndrome cause?
Marfan syndrome may cause pneumothorax, or collapsed lung.
What does Living with Marfan syndrome cause?
Living with Marfan syndrome may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is Heart valve disease?
Heart valve disease is a lifelong condition.
What does Heart valve disease cause?
Heart valve disease can cause chest pain that may happen only when you exert yourself.
What is Mucus?
Mucus is a substance made by tissues that line some organs and body cavities, such as the lungs and nose.
What is Mucus?
Mucus is a slimy substance.
What is Mucus?
Mucus is a slimy substance made by the lining of the bronchial tubes.
What is Normally, mucus?
Normally, mucus is a slippery, watery substance.
What is PR?
PR is a broad program that helps improve the well-being of people who have chronic ongoing breathing problems.
What does CF also cause?
CF also causes your sweat to become very salty.
What does CF also cause?
CF also causes infertility in men, and the disease can make it harder for women to get pregnant.
What does CF also cause?
CF also can cause clubbing and low bone density.
What does CF cause?
CF causes your sweat to become very salty.
What does CF cause?
CF can cause many digestive problems, such as bulky stools, intestinal gas, a swollen belly, severe constipation, and pain or discomfort.
What does However, CF cause?
However, CF causes your sweat to become very salty.
What does Although CF cause?
Although CF can cause fertility problems, men and women who have the disease should still have protected sex to avoid sexually transmitted diseases.
What does Living with CF cause?
Living with CF may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is Aplastic anemia?
Aplastic anemia is a type of anemia.
What is Aplastic anemia?
Aplastic anemia is a rare but serious disorder.
What is Aplastic anemia?
Aplastic anemia is a rare but serious blood disorder.
What does Aplastic anemia cause?
Aplastic anemia can cause signs and symptoms that aren't directly related to low blood cell counts.
What does Treatment for aplastic anemia cause?
Treatment for aplastic anemia may cause side effects or complications.
What is A dissection?
A dissection is a split in one or more layers of the artery wall.
What does Most brain aneurysms cause?
Most brain aneurysms cause no symptoms until they become large, begin to leak blood, or rupture burst.
What does A ruptured brain aneurysm cause?
A ruptured brain aneurysm can cause a stroke.
What is Situs inversus?
Situs inversus is a condition in which the internal organs for example, the heart, stomach, spleen, liver, and gallbladder are in opposite positions from where they normally are.
What does Faulty genes cause?
Faulty genes may cause the cilia to be the wrong size or shape or move in the wrong way.
What does No single faulty gene cause?
No single faulty gene causes all cases of PCD.
What does PCD also cause?
PCD also can cause fertility problems in men and women.
What does Living with PCD cause?
Living with PCD may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is t-MDS/AML?
t-MDS/AML is a clonal disorder characterized by distinct chromosomal changes.
What is Dexrazoxane?
Dexrazoxane is a bisdioxopiperazine compound that readily enters cells and is subsequently hydrolyzed to form a chelating agent.
What is Nodular regenerative hyperplasia?
Nodular regenerative hyperplasia is a rare condition characterized by the development of multiple monoacinar regenerative hepatic nodules and mild fibrosis.
What is Carboplatin?
Carboplatin is a cisplatin analog and is less nephrotoxic than cisplatin.
What does In adult women, hyperprolactinemia cause?
In adult women, hyperprolactinemia may cause galactorrhea, menstrual irregularities, loss of libido, hot flashes, infertility, and osteopenia; in adult men, impotence and loss of libido.
What does With myeloablative dosing, carboplatin cause?
With myeloablative dosing, carboplatin may cause significant ototoxicity.
What is Clotting factor?
Clotting factor is a protein needed for normal blood clotting.
What does Severe hemophilia cause?
Severe hemophilia can cause serious bleeding problems in babies.
What is The pleura?
The pleura is a membrane that consists of two large, thin layers of tissue.
What does A hemothorax also cause?
A hemothorax also can cause shock.
What is Minimally invasive bypass grafting?
Minimally invasive bypass grafting is a fairly new procedure.
What does LQTS cause?
LQTS causes about 3,000 to 4,000 sudden deaths in children and young adults each year in the United States.
What does Living with LQTS cause?
Living with LQTS may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is IBS?
IBS is a common cause of chronic diarrhea in grade school-age children and adolescents.
What is IBS?
IBS is a group of symptoms that occur together, not a disease.
What is IBS?
IBS is a functional GI disorder, meaning that the symptoms are caused by changes in how the digestive tract works.
What is Lactose intolerance?
Lactose intolerance is a condition in which people have digestive symptoms - such as bloating, gas, and diarrhea - after consuming milk or milk products.
What is Lactose intolerance?
Lactose intolerance is a condition in which people have digestive symptoms - such as bloating, diarrhea, and gas - after eating or drinking milk or milk products.
What is Lactose intolerance?
Lactose intolerance is a common problem.
What is Lactose intolerance?
Lactose intolerance is a common condition that is more likely to occur in adulthood, with a higher incidence in older adults.
What is Lactose?
Lactose is a sugar found in milk or milk products.
What is Lactose?
Lactose is a sugar found in milk and milk products.
What is Dietary fructose intolerance?
Dietary fructose intolerance is a condition in which people have digestive symptoms - such as bloating, gas, and diarrhea - after consuming foods that contain fructose.
What is Fructose?
Fructose is a sugar found in fruits, fruit juices, and honey.
What is Crohn's disease?
Crohn's disease is a disease that causes inflammation and irritation of any part of the GI tract.
What is Crohn's disease?
Crohn's disease is a disease that causes inflammation, or swelling, and irritation of any part of the digestive tract - also called the gastrointestinal GI tract.
What does Lactase deficiency cause?
Lactase deficiency may cause lactose malabsorption.
What does Fructose malabsorption cause?
Fructose malabsorption causes dietary fructose intolerance.
What is A defibrillator?
A defibrillator is a device that sends an electric shock to the heart to try to restore its normal rhythm.
What is CHD also?
CHD also is a major risk factor for angina chest pain or discomfort and heart attack, and it contributes to other heart problems.
What does SCA usually cause?
SCA usually causes death if it's not treated within minutes.
What is Acute diarrhea?
Acute diarrhea is a common problem that usually lasts 1 or 2 days and goes away on its own.
What is Acute diarrhea?
Acute diarrhea is a common problem and usually lasts only 1 or 2 days, but it may last longer.
What is Acute diarrhea?
Acute diarrhea is a common problem.
What is Diarrhea?
Diarrhea is a common problem that usually goes away on its own.
What does Parasites that cause?
Parasites that cause diarrhea include Giardia lamblia, Entamoeba histolytica, and Cryptosporidium.
What does Diarrhea cause?
Diarrhea can cause dehydration.
What does Diarrhea cause?
Diarrhea can cause dehydration, which is particularly dangerous in children, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems.
What does Diarrhea cause?
Diarrhea causes you to lose even more fluids.
What is Alagille syndrome?
Alagille syndrome is a genetic condition in which a person has fewer than the normal number of small bile ducts inside the liver.
What is Alagille syndrome?
Alagille syndrome is a complex disorder that can affect other parts of the body including the heart, kidneys, blood vessels, eyes, face, and skeleton.
What is Alagille syndrome?
Alagille syndrome is a genetic disorder in which a person has fewer than the normal number of bile ducts in the liver.
What is Alagille syndrome?
Alagille syndrome is a complex disorder that can affect the liver and other parts of the body such as the heart, kidneys, blood vessels, eyes, face, and skeleton.
What is Bile?
Bile is a liquid produced in the liver that serves two main functions: carrying toxins and waste products out of the body and helping the digestion of fats and the fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. The decreased number of hepatic ducts causes bile to build up in the liver, leading to liver damage.
What is Bile?
Bile is a liquid made in the liver.
What is Iron?
Iron is a mineral found in many foods.
What is Iron?
Iron is a mineral needed by our bodies.
What is Iron?
Iron is a part of all cells and does many things in our bodies.
What is Iron?
Iron is a part of many enzymes and is used in many cell functions.
What is Therapeutic phlebotomy?
Therapeutic phlebotomy is a procedure that removes blood and iron from your body.
What does The two faulty genes cause?
The two faulty genes cause your body to absorb more iron than usual from the foods you eat.
What does Faulty HFE genes cause?
Faulty HFE genes cause the body to absorb too much iron.
What does Living with hemochromatosis cause?
Living with hemochromatosis may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is While nasopharyngeal carcinoma?
While nasopharyngeal carcinoma is a very chemosensitive neoplasm, high radiation doses to the nasopharynx and neck approximately 60 Gy are required for optimal locoregional control.[6,11,12] The combination of cisplatin-based chemotherapy and high doses of radiation therapy to the nasopharynx and neck are associated with a high probability of hearing loss, hypothyroidism and panhypopituitarism, trismus, xerostomia, dental problems, and chronic sinusitis or otitis.[6,11]; [19][Level of evidence: 3iiiA].
What is Sialoblastoma Sialoblastoma?
Sialoblastoma Sialoblastoma is a usually benign tumor presenting in the neonatal period and rarely metastasizes.
What is Papillomatosis of the larynx?
Papillomatosis of the larynx is a benign overgrowth of tissues lining the larynx and is associated with the HPV, most commonly HPV-6 and HPV-11.[152] The presence of HPV-11 appears to correlate with a more aggressive clinical course than HPV-6.[153] These tumors can cause hoarseness because of their association with wart-like nodules on the vocal cords and may rarely extend into the lung, producing significant morbidity.
What is Papillomatosis of the larynx?
Papillomatosis of the larynx is a condition that causes papillomas benign tumors that look like warts to form in the tissue that lines the larynx.
What is Carney triad?
Carney triad is a syndrome characterized by the occurrence of GIST, lung chondromas, and paragangliomas.
What is Incidence Chordoma?
Incidence Chordoma is a very rare tumor of bone that arises from remnants of the notochord within the clivus, spinal vertebrae, or sacrum.
What is Raynaud's?
Raynaud's is a rare disorder that affects the arteries.
What does Severe secondary Raynaud's cause?
Severe secondary Raynaud's can cause skin sores or gangrene.
What is Neuro-myelitis optica?
Neuro-myelitis optica is a disorder associated with transverse myelitis as well as optic nerve inflammation.
What does While MS sometimes cause?
While MS sometimes causes severe disability, it is only rarely fatal and most people with MS have a normal life expectancy.
What does Transverse myelitis cause?
Transverse myelitis causes loss of spinal cord function over a period of time lasting from several hours to several weeks.
What does MS cause?
MS causes a variety of symptoms that can interfere with daily activities but which can usually be treated or managed to reduce their impact.
What does MS cause?
MS may cause depression as part of the disease process, since it damages myelin and nerve fibers inside the brain.
What is While lactose intolerance?
While lactose intolerance is a digestive system disorder, a milk allergy is a reaction by the body's immune system to one or more milk proteins.
What is While lactose intolerance?
While lactose intolerance is a digestive problem, a milk allergy is a reaction by the body's immune system to one or more milk proteins.
What is Shock?
Shock is a life-threatening condition in which blood pressure drops so low that the brain, kidneys, and other vital organs can't get enough blood to work well.
What is Shock?
Shock is a life-threatening condition that requires emergency treatment.
What is Shock?
Shock is a life-threatening emergency.
What is Postprandial hypotension?
Postprandial hypotension is a sudden drop in blood pressure after a meal.
What is GVHD?
GVHD is a common complication for people who get stem cells from a donor.
What is Diverticular disease?
Diverticular disease is a condition that occurs when a person has problems from small pouches, or sacs, that have formed and pushed outward through weak spots in the colon wall.
What is Troponin?
Troponin is a protein that helps your muscles contract.
What is A pacemaker?
A pacemaker is a small device that's placed under the skin of your chest or abdomen.
What is A pacemaker?
A pacemaker is a small device that's placed in the chest or abdomen to help control abnormal heart rhythms.
What is Dopamine?
Dopamine is a chemical messenger responsible for transmitting signals between the substantia nigra and the next relay station of the brain, the corpus striatum, to produce smooth, purposeful movement.
What is Orthostatic hypotension?
Orthostatic hypotension is a sudden drop in blood pressure when a person stands up from a lying-down or seated position.
What is Orthostatic hypotension?
Orthostatic hypotension is a sudden fall in blood pressure that occurs when a person assumes a standing position.
What is Dementia with Lewy bodies?
Dementia with Lewy bodies is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with abnormal protein deposits Lewy bodies found in certain areas of the brain.
What is PD?
PD is a slowly progressive disorder.
What is PD?
PD is a devastating and complex disease that interferes with movement more and more as time goes on.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus - the opening through which stool leaves the body.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
What is The GI tract?
The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from your mouth to your anus - the opening where stool leaves your body.
What does Foodborne illnesses cause?
Foodborne illnesses cause about 3,000 deaths in the United States annually.
What is PDA?
PDA is a type of congenital kon-JEN-ih-tal heart defect.
What is PDA?
PDA is a fairly common congenital heart defect in the United States.
What is PDA?
PDA is a condition that affects some premature infants.
What is PDA?
PDA is a possible complication of RDS.
What is The ductus arteriosus?
The ductus arteriosus is a blood vessel that connects the aorta and pulmonary artery in unborn babies.
What is Cardiogenic kar-dee-oh-JE-nik shock?
Cardiogenic kar-dee-oh-JE-nik shock is a condition in which a suddenly weakened heart isn't able to pump enough blood to meet the body's needs.
What is Hypovolemic shock?
Hypovolemic shock is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to the body because of severe blood loss.
What does Shock cause?
Shock causes very low blood pressure and may be life threatening.
What does Cardiogenic shock cause?
Cardiogenic shock can cause death if the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the organs isn't restored quickly.
What is TTP?
TTP is a rare disorder.
What is Quinine?
Quinine is a substance often found in tonic water and nutritional health products.
What does TTP also cause?
TTP also can cause red blood cells to break apart faster than the body can replace them.
What does Hemolytic anemia cause?
Hemolytic anemia causes red blood cells to break down and release LDH into the blood.
What does Hemolytic anemia cause?
Hemolytic anemia can cause mild to severe signs and symptoms in a newborn, such as jaundice and a buildup of fluid.
What is A ventilator?
A ventilator is a machine that supports breathing..
What is A ventilator?
A ventilator is a machine that supports breathing.
What does When left untreated, OHS cause?
When left untreated, OHS can cause serious problems, such as:
What does OHS cause?
OHS can cause daytime sleepiness.
What is Hypocretin?
Hypocretin is a chemical that helps promote wakefulness.
What is Hypocretin?
Hypocretin is a chemical that helps promote wakefulness. This medicine helps you stay awake during the day and sleep at night.
What does Narcolepsy also cause?
Narcolepsy also can cause:
What does Living with narcolepsy cause?
Living with narcolepsy may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is CAV?
CAV is a blood vessel disease.
What is CAV?
CAV is a chronic ongoing disease in which the walls of the coronary arteries in the new heart become thick, hard, and less stretchy.
What is CAV?
CAV is a leading cause of donor heart failure and death in the years following transplant surgery.
What does CAV cause?
CAV can cause heart attack, heart failure, dangerous arrhythmias, and sudden cardiac arrest.
What is Testicular cancer?
Testicular cancer is a highly treatable, usually curable, cancer that most often develops in young and middle-aged men.
What is Teratoma?
Teratoma is a relatively resistant histologic subtype, so chemotherapy may not be appropriate.
What does Getting a VAD cause?
Getting a VAD may cause fear, anxiety, and stress.
What is Asbestos?
Asbestos is a mineral that, in the past, was widely used in many industries.
What does Asbestos also cause?
Asbestos also can cause cancer in the lining of the abdominal cavity.
What does Pleural effusion cause?
Pleural effusion may cause pain on one side of the chest.
What is However, a TAH?
However, a TAH is a very complex device.
What is A TAH?
A TAH is a last resort device.
What does Getting a TAH cause?
Getting a TAH may cause fear, anxiety, and stress.
What is Intussusception?
Intussusception is a condition in which one section of either the large or small intestine folds into itself, much like a collapsible telescope.
What does Malrotation cause?
Malrotation can cause serious medical problems in some infants and children, while others may never develop problems.
What does Severe RLS cause?
Severe RLS may cause painful feelings.
What does Although RLS cause?
Although RLS can cause a lack of sleep, this sign isn't specific enough to diagnose the condition.
What does Living with RLS cause?
Living with RLS may cause anxiety and stress.
What is The pancreas?
The pancreas is a large gland behind the stomach and close to the duodenum - the first part of the small intestine.
What is ERCP?
ERCP is a specialized technique used to view the pancreas, gallbladder, and bile ducts and treat complications of acute and chronic pancreatitis - gallstones, narrowing or blockage of the pancreatic duct or bile ducts, leaks in the bile ducts, and pseudocysts - accumulations of fluid and tissue debris.
What is ERCP?
ERCP is a procedure that combines upper gastrointestinal GI endoscopy and x rays to treat problems of the bile and pancreatic ducts.
What does Severe acute pancreatitis cause?
Severe acute pancreatitis may cause dehydration and low blood pressure.
What does Gallstones that cause?
Gallstones that cause acute pancreatitis require surgical removal of the stones and the gallbladder.
What does Acute pancreatitis sometimes cause?
Acute pancreatitis sometimes causes kidney failure.
What does The damaged duct cause?
The damaged duct causes the pancreas to become inflamed.
What is Surfactant?
Surfactant is a liquid that coats the inside of the lungs.
What is RDS?
RDS is a common lung disorder in premature infants.
What is RDS?
RDS is a breathing disorder that mostly affects premature newborns.
What is Lofgren's syndrome?
Lofgren's syndrome is a classic set of signs and symptoms that is typical in some people who have sarcoidosis.
What is Lofgren's syndrome?
Lofgren's syndrome is a classic set of signs and symptoms that occur in some people when they first have sarcoidosis.
What is Erythema nodosum?
Erythema nodosum is a rash of red or reddish-purple bumps on your ankles and shins.
What does Lofgren's syndrome cause?
Lofgren's syndrome may cause fever, enlarged lymph nodes, arthritis usually in the ankles, and/or erythema nodosum er-ih-THE-ma no-DO-sum.
What does Sarcoidosis cause?
Sarcoidosis can cause lumps, ulcers sores, or areas of discolored skin.
What does Sarcoidosis cause?
Sarcoidosis may cause a more serious skin condition called lupus pernio.
What does Sarcoidosis also cause?
Sarcoidosis also can cause eye problems.
What does Living with sarcoidosis cause?
Living with sarcoidosis may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is PV?
PV is a serious, chronic ongoing disease that can be fatal if not diagnosed and treated.
What is Hematocrit?
Hematocrit is a measure of how much space red blood cells take up in your blood.
What is EPO?
EPO is a hormone that prompts your bone marrow to make new blood cells.
What does If your PV cause?
If your PV causes itching, your doctor may prescribe medicines to ease the discomfort.
What does PV cause?
PV may cause itching all over your body.
What does PV cause?
PV causes poor blood flow in your hands and feet.
What is Autonomic dysreflexia?
Autonomic dysreflexia is a life-threatening reflex action that primarily affects those with injuries to the neck or upper back.
What is Li-Fraumeni syndrome?
Li-Fraumeni syndrome is a rare disorder that greatly increases the risk of developing several types of cancer, particularly in children and young adults.
What is WTX inactivation?
WTX inactivation is a frequent, but late, event in tumorigenesis and has no apparent effect on clinical presentation or prognosis.[64].
What does Nonsyndromic cause?
Nonsyndromic causes of Wilms tumor Nonsyndromic causes of Wilms tumor include the following:
What is Clofarabine?
Clofarabine is a proven effective therapy for patients with multiple relapses of low-risk or high-risk organs.[13].
What does Rarely, hypothalamic involvement cause?
Rarely, hypothalamic involvement may cause morbid obesity.
What does LCH cause?
LCH causes fatty changes in the liver or hypodense areas along the portal tract, which can be identified by CT scans.[9].
What is An antigen?
An antigen is a substance that your body reacts against, such as molds, dusts, and chemicals..
What does Acute HP cause?
Acute HP can cause chills, body aches, coughing, and chest tightness.
What does Chronic HP cause?
Chronic HP can cause a worsening cough, shortness of breath with physical activity, fatigue tiredness, and weight loss.
What does Chronic HP cause?
Chronic HP can cause long-term lung damage, such as pulmonary fibrosis.
What does Severe HP cause?
Severe HP may cause clubbing a widening and rounding of the tips of the fingers or toes.
What does Sometimes, chronic HP cause?
Sometimes, chronic HP can cause long-term lung damage, such as pulmonary fibrosis PULL-mun-ary fi-BRO-sis.
What does HP cause?
HP can cause a crackling sound when you breathe.
What is The appendix?
The appendix is a fingerlike pouch attached to the large intestine in the lower right area of the abdomen, the area between the chest and hips.
What is The appendix?
The appendix is a fingerlike pouch attached to the large intestine in the lower right area of the abdomen.
What is The appendix?
The appendix is a fingerlike pouch attached to the large intestine and located in the lower right area of the abdomen.
What is Appendicitis?
Appendicitis is a medical emergency that requires immediate care.
What is Vitamin B12?
Vitamin B12 is a nutrient found in some foods.
What is Pernicious anemia?
Pernicious anemia is a type of anemia.
What is Intrinsic factor?
Intrinsic factor is a protein made in the stomach.
What does Pernicious anemia also cause?
Pernicious anemia also can cause other problems, such as nerve damage, neurological problems such as memory loss, and digestive tract problems.
What does Vitamin B12 deficiency cause?
Vitamin B12 deficiency can cause weakened bones and may lead to hip fractures.
What does Severe vitamin B12 deficiency cause?
Severe vitamin B12 deficiency can cause neurological problems, such as confusion, dementia, depression, and memory loss.
What is Immune globulin?
Immune globulin is a medicine that's injected into a vein.
What does Kawasaki disease cause?
Kawasaki disease can cause serious health problems.
What is Celiac disease?
Celiac disease is a digestive disease that damages the small intestine and interferes with absorption of nutrients from food.
What is A dietitian?
A dietitian is a health care professional who specializes in food and nutrition.
What is Heat syncope?
Heat syncope is a fainting syncope episode or dizziness that usually occurs with prolonged standing or sudden rising from a sitting or lying position.
What is Heat rash?
Heat rash is a skin irritation caused by excessive sweating during hot, humid weather.
What does Heat stroke cause?
Heat stroke can cause death or permanent disability if emergency treatment is not given.
What is MPTP?
MPTP is a toxin that kills neurons in the substantia nigra, causing symptoms that closely resemble PD.
What is HD?
HD is a disease of the large intestine that causes severe constipation or intestinal obstruction.
What is HD?
HD is a familial disease, passed from parent to child through a mutation in the normal gene.
What does Why does HD cause?
Why does HD cause constipation?
What does Rarely, MVP cause?
Rarely, MVP can cause problems such as arrhythmias irregular heartbeats or infective endocarditis EN-do-kar-DI-tis.
What does Rarely, MVP cause?
Rarely, MVP can cause arrhythmias irregular heartbeats and other problems.
What does MVP that cause?
MVP that causes complications or severe symptoms most often occurs in men older than 50.
What does When MVP does cause?
When MVP does cause signs and symptoms, they may include:
What does Mitral valve backflow cause?
Mitral valve backflow causes blood to flow from the left ventricle back into the left atrium.
What is Intestinal pseudo-obstruction?
Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a rare condition with symptoms that resemble those caused by a blockage, or obstruction, of the intestines, also called the bowel.
What is Malnutrition?
Malnutrition is a condition that develops when the body does not get the right amount of the vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients it needs to maintain healthy tissues and organ function.
What is Manometry?
Manometry is a test that measures muscle pressure and movements in the GI tract, such as how well the smooth muscles of the stomach and small intestine contract and relax.
What is Bladder preservation?
Bladder preservation is a major goal of therapy for patients with tumors arising in the bladder and/or prostate.
What is CPAP?
CPAP is a treatment for sleep apnea.
What is CPAP?
CPAP is a long-term treatment.
What is CPAP?
CPAP is a safe, painless treatment.
What is Actigraphy?
Actigraphy is a test that's done while you do your normal daily routine.
What is An actigraph?
An actigraph is a simple device that's usually worn like a wristwatch.
What is An actigraph?
An actigraph is a small device that's usually worn like a wristwatch.
What is The MSLT?
The MSLT is a daytime sleep study that's usually done after a PSG.
What does If lymphocytopenia cause?
If lymphocytopenia causes serious infections, you may need medicines or other treatments.
What is The inguinal canal?
The inguinal canal is a passage through the lower abdominal wall.
What is A strangulated hernia?
A strangulated hernia is a life-threatening condition.
What does Inguinal hernias cause?
Inguinal hernias can cause the following complications:
What does However, ITP cause?
However, ITP can cause bleeding inside the body internal bleeding or underneath or from the skin external bleeding.
What is Usually, blood clotting?
Usually, blood clotting is a normal bodily process.
What is Eclampsia?
Eclampsia is a serious condition that causes seizures in pregnant women.
What does APS also cause?
APS also can cause pregnancy-related problems, such as multiple miscarriages, a miscarriage late in pregnancy, or a premature birth due to eclampsia ek-LAMP-se-ah.
What does APS also cause?
APS also can cause pregnancy-related problems, such as multiple miscarriages, a miscarriage late in pregnancy, or a premature birth due to eclampsia.
What does APS cause?
APS causes blood clots to form in the body's arteries and veins.
What does Both DVT and PE cause?
Both DVT and PE can cause serious, possibly life-threatening problems if not treated.
What is Sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a common disorder that causes pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep.
What is Sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a leading cause of excessive daytime sleepiness.
What is Sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a chronic condition that requires long-term management.
What is Sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a common sleep disorder characterized by brief interruptions of breathing during sleep.
What does CPAP masks cause?
CPAP masks can cause skin allergies or skin irritation.
What does small leaks cause?
But small leaks can cause a shrill sound that disturbs the sleep of others in the house.
What does IE also cause?
IE also can cause problems in many other parts of the body besides the heart.
What does As a result, IE cause?
As a result, IE can cause a range of complications.
What does IE cause?
IE can cause kidney abscesses and kidney damage.
What does In some cases, IE cause?
In some cases, IE can cause kidney failure.
What is Colonoscopy?
Colonoscopy is a procedure that uses a long, flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end, called a colonoscope, to look inside the rectum and entire colon.
What is Colonoscopy?
Colonoscopy is a procedure that uses a long, flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end, called a colonoscope or scope, to look inside the rectum and entire colon.
What is Colonoscopy?
Colonoscopy is a test that uses a long, flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end to look inside the rectum and entire colon.
What is Flexible sigmoidoscopy?
Flexible sigmoidoscopy is a test that uses a flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end, called a sigmoidoscope, to look inside the rectum and the lower, or sigmoid, colon.
What is Flexible sigmoidoscopy?
Flexible sigmoidoscopy is a test that uses a flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end, called a sigmoidoscope or scope, to look inside the rectum and the lower, or sigmoid, colon.
What is Flexible sigmoidoscopy?
Flexible sigmoidoscopy is a test that uses a flexible, narrow tube with a light and tiny camera on one end to look inside the rectum and the lower colon.
What does Hemorrhoids cause?
Hemorrhoids cause itching, pain, and sometimes bleeding.
What is Biliary atresia?
Biliary atresia is a disease in newborns in which the bile ducts are absent, damaged, or blocked.
What is Also, chILD?
Also, chILD is a broad term for a group of diseases with similar symptoms - it's not a precise diagnosis.
What is Mucoepidermoid carcinoma Mucoepidermoid carcinoma?
Mucoepidermoid carcinoma Mucoepidermoid carcinoma is a malignant epithelial tumor that is composed of various proportions of mucous, epidermoid e.g., squamous, intermediate, columnar, and clear cells and often demonstrates prominent cystic growth.
What is Solid adenoid cystic carcinoma?
Solid adenoid cystic carcinoma is a high-grade lesion with reported recurrence rates of as much as 100% compared with 50% to 80% for the tubular and cribriform variants.[25].
What is PLGA PLGA?
PLGA PLGA is a malignant epithelial tumor that is essentially limited to occurrence in minor salivary gland sites and is characterized by bland, uniform nuclear features; diverse but characteristic architecture; infiltrative growth; and perineural infiltration.
What is Clear cell adenocarcinoma?
Clear cell adenocarcinoma is a low-grade neoplasm.
What is Sebaceous adenocarcinoma Sebaceous adenocarcinoma?
Sebaceous adenocarcinoma Sebaceous adenocarcinoma is a rare malignant epithelial tumor composed of islands and sheets of cells that have morphologically atypical nuclei, an infiltrative growth pattern, and focal sebaceous differentiation.
What is Oncocytic carcinoma?
Oncocytic carcinoma is a high-grade carcinoma.
What is Mucinous adenocarcinoma Mucinous adenocarcinoma?
Mucinous adenocarcinoma Mucinous adenocarcinoma is a rare malignant neoplasm characterized by large amounts of extracellular epithelial mucin that contains cords, nests, and solitary epithelial cells.
What is Accordingly, metastatic carcinoma?
Accordingly, metastatic carcinoma is a primary concern in the differential diagnosis of these neoplasms.[3].
What is Myoepithelial carcinoma Myoepithelioma carcinoma?
Myoepithelial carcinoma Myoepithelioma carcinoma is a rare, malignant salivary gland neoplasm in which the tumor cells almost exclusively manifest myoepithelial differentiation.
What is Pediatric follicular lymphoma?
Pediatric follicular lymphoma is a disease that differs from the adult counterpart genetically and clinically.
What is Rituximab?
Rituximab is a mouse/human chimeric monoclonal antibody targeting the CD20 antigen.
What is Gliomatosis cerebri?
Gliomatosis cerebri is a diffuse glioma that involves widespread involvement of the cerebral hemispheres in which it may be confined, but it often extends caudally to affect the brain stem, cerebellum, and/or spinal cord.
What does DIC cause?
DIC can cause internal and external bleeding.
What does DIC cause?
DIC can cause life-threatening bleeding.
What does Chronic DIC cause?
Chronic DIC causes excessive blood clotting, but it usually doesn't lead to bleeding.
What does Chronic DIC cause?
Chronic DIC causes blood clotting, but it usually doesn't lead to bleeding.
What is Autoimmune hepatitis?
Autoimmune hepatitis is a chronic - or long lasting - disease in which the body's immune system attacks the normal components, or cells, of the liver and causes inflammation and liver damage.
What is Autoimmune hepatitis?
Autoimmune hepatitis is a serious condition that may worsen over time if not treated.
What is Autoimmune hepatitis?
Autoimmune hepatitis is a chronic disease of the liver.
What is Autoimmune hepatitis?
Autoimmune hepatitis is a chronic - or long lasting - disease in which the body's immune system attacks the liver and causes inflammation and damage.
What is A blood transfusion?
A blood transfusion is a safe, common procedure in which you receive blood through an intravenous IV line inserted into one of your blood vessels.
What does Getting many blood transfusions cause?
Getting many blood transfusions can cause too much iron to build up in your blood iron overload.
What is Heme?
Heme is a red pigment composed of iron linked to a chemical called protoporphyrin.
What is In the liver, heme?
In the liver, heme is a component of proteins that break down hormones, medications, and other chemicals and keep liver cells functioning normally.
What is *Protoporphyria XLPP?
*Protoporphyria XLPP is a variant of erythropoietic protoporphyria.
What is A tracheostomy?
A tracheostomy is a surgically made hole.
What is A tracheostomy?
A tracheostomy is a surgically made hole in the front of the neck.
What is An upper GI endoscopy?
An upper GI endoscopy is a procedure that uses an endoscope - a small, flexible tube with a light - to see the lining of the upper GI tract.
What is Sleep apnea usually?
Sleep apnea usually is a chronic ongoing condition that disrupts your sleep.
What is Central sleep apnea?
Central sleep apnea is a less common type of sleep apnea.
What is Obstructive sleep apnea?
Obstructive sleep apnea is a common condition.
What does In children, sleep apnea cause?
In children, sleep apnea can cause hyperactivity, poor school performance, and angry or hostile behavior.
What does CPAP treatment cause?
CPAP treatment may cause side effects in some people.
What is Scoliosis?
Scoliosis is a musculoskeletal disorder in which there is a sideways curvature of the spine, or backbone.
What is Cutaneous Ewing sarcoma?
Cutaneous Ewing sarcoma is a soft tissue tumor in the skin or subcutaneous tissue that seems to behave as a less-aggressive tumor than primary bone or soft tissue Ewing sarcoma.
What does ARDS cause?
ARDS causes the lungs to become stiff scarred.
What does ARDS cause?
ARDS may cause abnormal breathing sounds, such as crackling.
What does Living with ARDS cause?
Living with ARDS may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is H. pylori?
H. pylori is a bacterium that is a cause of peptic ulcers, or sores on the lining of the stomach or the duodenum, the first part of the small intestine.
What is H. pylori?
H. pylori is a type of bacteria - a germ that may cause infection.
What does Menetrier's disease cause?
Menetrier's disease causes the ridges along the inside of the stomach wall - called rugae - to enlarge, forming giant folds in the stomach lining.
What does Paget's disease cause?
Paget's disease can cause arthritis over time when enlarged and misshapen bones put extra stress on nearby joints.
What does Paget's disease cause?
Paget's disease can cause osteoarthritis when it:
What does Paget's disease cause?
Paget's disease can cause several different kinds of pain, as described below.
What does Paget's disease cause?
Paget's disease causes bones to grow too large and weak.
What does Paget's disease cause?
Paget's disease may cause pain or lead to other medical problems.
What is A stent?
A stent is a small mesh tube that's used to treat narrow or weak arteries.
What is The aorta?
The aorta is a major artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from the left side of the heart to the body.
What does Also, anticlotting medicines cause?
Also, anticlotting medicines can cause side effects, such as an allergic rash.
What is Angina also?
Angina also is a common symptom of CHD.
What is A peptic ulcer?
A peptic ulcer is a sore on the lining of the stomach or duodenum - the beginning of the small intestine.
What is A peptic ulcer?
A peptic ulcer is a sore in the lining of the stomach or duodenum.
What is A peptic ulcer?
A peptic ulcer is a sore on the lining of the stomach or duodenum, the beginning of the small intestine.
What is A peptic ulcer?
A peptic ulcer is a sore in the lining of your stomach or duodenum*. The duodenum is the first part of your small intestine.
What is A peptic ulcer?
A peptic ulcer is a sore in the lining of the stomach, duodenum, or esophagus.
What does How do NSAIDs cause?
How do NSAIDs cause a peptic ulcer?
What does NSAIDs cause?
NSAIDs can cause peptic ulcers - sores on the lining of the.
What does Ulcerative colitis cause?
Ulcerative colitis causes irritation and ulcers, also called sores, in the inner lining of the colon - part of the large intestine - and rectum.
What is A cough?
A cough is a natural reflex that protects your lungs.
What does A chronic cough also cause?
A chronic cough also can cause headaches, chest pain, loss of bladder control, sweating, and, rarely, fractured ribs.
What does Problems digesting carbohydrates cause?
Problems digesting carbohydrates may cause increased gas and bloating.
What is Health Literacy Kentucky?
Health Literacy Kentucky is a partnership of more than 35 organizations that have come together to address the issues and challenges associated with limited health literacy in Kentucky.
What is Health Literacy Wisconsin?
Health Literacy Wisconsin is a division of Wisconsin Literacy, a nonprofit coalition representing a membership of 60 community-based literacy agencies.
What is Chronic bronchitis?
Chronic bronchitis is a serious, long-term medical condition.
What is Bronchitis?
Bronchitis is a very common condition.
What does Bronchitis also cause?
Bronchitis also may cause wheezing a whistling or squeaky sound when you breathe, chest pain or discomfort, a low fever, and shortness of breath.
What does Infections or lung irritants cause?
Infections or lung irritants cause acute bronchitis.
What does If your bronchitis cause?
If your bronchitis causes wheezing, you may need an inhaled medicine to open your airways.
What is Cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that's found in all cells of the body.
What is Cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a waxy substance material that's found naturally in your body.
What is Cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that your body needs.
What is Cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that your body needs, but when you have too much, it can build up on the walls of your arteries.
What is Cholesterol?
Cholesterol is a fatty substance that's found in animal-based foods such as meats, poultry, egg yolks, and whole milks.
What is High blood cholesterol?
High blood cholesterol is a condition in which you have too much cholesterol in your blood.
What is Total cholesterol?
Total cholesterol is a measure of the total amount of cholesterol in your blood, including LDL and HDL..
What is Total cholesterol?
Total cholesterol is a measure of the total amount of cholesterol in your blood, including low-density lipoprotein LDL cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein HDL cholesterol.
What is Brentuximab vedotin?
Brentuximab vedotin is a chimeric antibody directed against CD30, which is linked to the microtubule-disrupting agent, monomethyl auristatin E.[28,32,33] Response rates around 75% are seen with complete remissions around 30% to 50% and median progression-free survival of 4 to 8 months.[28,32,33][Level of evidence: 3iiiDiv].
What does H. pylori bacteria cause?
H. pylori bacteria can cause peptic ulcers - sores on the.
What does H. pylori cause?
H. pylori causes more than half of peptic ulcers worldwide.
What does The bacterium cause?
The bacterium causes peptic ulcers by damaging the mucous coating that protects the stomach and duodenum.
What does Why the bacterium cause?
Why the bacterium causes ulcers in some people and not in others is not known.
What is Fluoride?
Fluoride is a mineral that helps protect teeth from decay.
What is Creating a tracheostomy?
Creating a tracheostomy is a fairly common, simple procedure.
What is Because the CNS?
Because the CNS is a sanctuary site i.e., an anatomic space that is poorly penetrated by many of the systemically administered chemotherapy agents typically used to treat ALL, specific CNS-directed therapies must be instituted early in treatment to eliminate clinically evident CNS disease at diagnosis and to prevent CNS relapse in all patients.
What is Whipple disease?
Whipple disease is a rare bacterial infection that primarily affects the small intestine.
What does T. whipplei infection cause?
T. whipplei infection can cause internal sores, also called lesions, and thickening of tissues in the small intestine.
What does Swatting at an insect cause?
Swatting at an insect may cause it to sting..
What is Carotid angiography?
Carotid angiography is a special type of x ray.
What does CEA also cause?
CEA also can cause less serious complications.
What is Emphysema?
Emphysema is a serious lung disease in which damage to the airways makes it hard to breathe.
What does Living with AAT deficiency cause?
Living with AAT deficiency may cause fear, anxiety, depression, and stress.
What is Neonatal hemochromatosis?
Neonatal hemochromatosis is a rare disease characterized by liver failure and death in fetuses and newborns.
What does However, this iron overload cause?
However, this iron overload causes much less liver damage than the underlying liver disease causes.
What is The gallbladder?
The gallbladder is a small, pear-shaped organ located in the upper right abdomen - the area between the chest and hips - below the liver.
What is The gallbladder?
The gallbladder is a pear-shaped organ that lies just under the liver in the upper abdomen.
What does Gallstones cause?
Gallstones can cause sudden pain in the upper right abdomen.
What is Chronic constrictive pericarditis?
Chronic constrictive pericarditis is a rare disease that develops over time.
What is Gluten?
Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley.
What is Gluten?
Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, barley, farina, and bulgur.
What does Over time, celiac disease cause?
Over time, celiac disease can cause anemia, infertility, weak and brittle bones, an itchy skin rash, and other health problems.
What does Celiac disease cause?
Celiac disease can cause problems, such as weak or brittle bones, even if you are on a gluten-free diet.
What is Melanoma?
Melanoma is a malignant tumor of melanocytes, which are the cells that make the pigment melanin and are derived from the neural crest.
What is Although melanoma?
Although melanoma is a relatively radiation-resistant tumor, palliative radiation therapy may alleviate symptoms.
What is An IUD?
An IUD is a small, T-shaped piece of plastic with copper or hormones.
What is This free app?
This free app is a way for users to access the latest information related to alcohol use during pregnancy and FASDs directly from an iPhone, iPod Touch, or iPad.
What does Having a lung transplant cause?
Having a lung transplant may cause fear, anxiety, and stress.
What does Viral gastroenteritis cause?
Viral gastroenteritis causes millions of cases of diarrhea each year.
What does Untreated severe dehydration cause?
Untreated severe dehydration can cause serious health problems such as organ damage, shock, or coma - a sleeplike state in which a person is not conscious.
What does Rotavirus typically cause?
Rotavirus typically causes vomiting and watery diarrhea for 3 to 7 days, along with fever and abdominal pain.
What is Lymphoblastic lymphoma?
Lymphoblastic lymphoma is a very aggressive form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma NHL, which often occurs in young patients, but not exclusively.
What is Virtual colonoscopy?
Virtual colonoscopy is a newer technology and not all medical facilities make this procedure available.
What is Heartburn?
Heartburn is a painful, burning feeling in the chest caused by reflux, or stomach contents flowing back into the esophagus - the organ that connects the mouth to the stomach.
What is Heartburn?
Heartburn is a painful, burning feeling in the chest that radiates toward the neck or back.
What is Ulcerative colitis?
Ulcerative colitis is a chronic, or long-lasting, disease that causes inflammation and sores, called ulcers, in the inner lining of the large intestine, which includes the colon and the rectum - the end part of the colon.
What is NF1?
NF1 is a progressive disorder, which means most symptoms will worsen over time, although a small number of people may have symptoms that remain constant.
What is Schwannomatosis?
Schwannomatosis is a rare form of neurofibromatosis that is genetically and clinically distinct from NF1 and NF2. Inherited forms of the disorder account for only 15 percent of all cases.
What is Stress echo?
Stress echo is a transthoracic echo combined with either an exercise or pharmacological FAR-ma-ko-LOJ-ih-kal stress test.
What is Doppler ultrasound?
Doppler ultrasound is a special ultrasound that shows how blood is flowing through the blood vessels.
What is Doppler ultrasound?
Doppler ultrasound is a special test that shows the movement of blood through your blood vessels.
What is Doppler ultrasound?
Doppler ultrasound is a special test that shows the movement of blood through your arteries.
What is A gastric neurostimulator?
A gastric neurostimulator is a surgically implanted battery-operated device that sends mild electrical pulses to the stomach muscles to help control nausea and vomiting.
What is A hematologist?
A hematologist is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating blood disorders.
What is One treatment for VWD?
One treatment for VWD is a man-made hormone called desmopressin.
What is Constipation?
Constipation is a condition in which you have one or both of the following: fewer than three bowel movements a week.
What is Gestational diabetes?
Gestational diabetes is a type of diabetes that some women develop during pregnancy.
What is Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans Dermatofibrosarcoma?
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans Dermatofibrosarcoma is a rare tumor, but many of the reported cases arise in children.
What is Epithelioid sarcoma Epithelioid sarcoma?
Epithelioid sarcoma Epithelioid sarcoma is a rare mesenchymal tumor of uncertain histogenesis which displays multilineage differentiation.
What is Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma?
Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma is a multinodular neoplasm.
What is Hemangiopericytoma infantile Hemangiopericytoma?
Hemangiopericytoma infantile Hemangiopericytoma is a highly vascularized tumor of uncertain origin.
What is Neuropathic pain?
Neuropathic pain is a type of pain that can result from injury to nerves, either in the peripheral or central nervous system see The Nervous Systems in the Appendix.
What is Neuropathic pain?
Neuropathic pain is a primary target of NINDS-sponsored studies aimed at developing more effective therapies for symptoms of peripheral neuropathy.
What is Capsaicin?
Capsaicin is a chemical found in chili peppers that is also a primary ingredient in pain-relieving creams see Chili Peppers, Capsaicin, and Pain in the Appendix.
What is Radical cystectomy Radical cystectomy?
Radical cystectomy Radical cystectomy is a standard treatment option for stage II and stage III bladder cancer, and its effectiveness at prolonging survival increases if it is preceded by cisplatin-based multiagent chemotherapy.[1-4] Radical cystectomy is accompanied by pelvic lymph node dissection and includes removal of the bladder, perivesical tissues, prostate, and seminal vesicles in men and removal of the uterus, tubes, ovaries, anterior vaginal wall, and urethra in women.[5-8] Studies of outcomes after radical cystectomy report increased survival in patients who had more, rather than fewer, lymph nodes resected; whether this represents a therapeutic benefit of resecting additional nodes or stage migration is unknown.
What is Radical cystectomy?
Radical cystectomy is a major operation with a perioperative mortality rate of 2% to 3% when performed at centers of excellence.[6-8] Postoperative complications include ileus.
What is Thymoma?
Thymoma is a thymic epithelial tumor in which the epithelial component exhibits no overt atypia and retains histologic features specific to the normal thymus.
What is Morphologically, type AB thymoma?
Morphologically, type AB thymoma is a thymic tumor in which foci having the features of type A thymoma are admixed with foci rich in nonneoplastic lymphocytes.
What does Occasionally, subependymomas cause?
Occasionally, subependymomas cause ventricular obstruction and, in these cases, ventriculoperitoneal shunt placement is indicated.
What is Oxygen therapy?
Oxygen therapy is a treatment that provides you with extra oxygen, a gas that your body needs to work well.
What is A low oxygen level?
A low oxygen level is a sign that you need oxygen therapy.
What does Oxygen therapy cause?
Oxygen therapy can cause complications and side effects.
What is Esophageal cancer?
Esophageal cancer is a treatable disease, but it is rarely curable.
What is Esophageal cancer?
Esophageal cancer is a disease in which malignant cells form in the tissues of the esophagus.
What is Insomnia?
Insomnia is a common disorder.
What does Insomnia cause?
Insomnia can cause daytime sleepiness and a lack of energy.
What does Insomnia cause?
Insomnia can cause you to feel anxious, depressed, or irritable.
What does Insomnia also cause?
Insomnia also can cause other serious problems.
What is Merkel cell carcinoma?
Merkel cell carcinoma is a rare tumor.
What is Each well-baby visit?
Each well-baby visit is a great time to ask the doctor or nurse any questions about:
What is Project CHOICES Plus?
Project CHOICES Plus is a randomized controlled trial taking place in two hospitals and 11 community health clinics of the Harris County Hospital District in Harris County, Texas.
What is Project CHOICES?
Project CHOICES is a brief motivational intervention for reducing alcohol-exposed pregnancies among women who are at high risk for such pregnancies.
What does However, abdominal adhesions cause?
However, abdominal adhesions cause tissues and organs in the abdominal cavity to stick together.
What does Abdominal adhesions cause?
Abdominal adhesions can cause intestinal obstruction and female infertility - the inability to become pregnant after a year of trying.
What does Abdominal adhesions cause?
Abdominal adhesions cause tissues and organs in the abdominal cavity to stick together.
What is Rh incompatibility?
Rh incompatibility is a condition that occurs during pregnancy if a woman has Rh-negative blood and her baby has Rh-positive blood.
What is An ectopic pregnancy?
An ectopic pregnancy is a pregnancy that starts outside of the uterus, or womb..
What is Amniocentesis?
Amniocentesis is a test that you may have during pregnancy.
What does High levels of bilirubin cause?
High levels of bilirubin cause jaundice.
What is An oncologist?
An oncologist is a specialist in cancer.
What is A neuro-oncologist?
A neuro-oncologist is a neurologist or oncologist who specializes in nervous system tumors.
What is A radiation oncologist?
A radiation oncologist is a doctor who specializes in using radiation to treat individuals with cancer.
What is Alcoholism?
Alcoholism is a disease characterized by a dependency on alcohol.
What does Ulcerative colitis usually cause?
Ulcerative colitis usually causes an inflammation in all or part of the large intestine.
What does Both pregnancy and breastfeeding cause?
Both pregnancy and breastfeeding cause changes in, and place extra demands on, women's bodies.
What is A PE?
A PE is a sudden blockage in a lung artery.
What does Although rare, the radioisotopes cause?
Although rare, the radioisotopes may cause an allergic reaction.
What is Insulin?
Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas, an organ located behind the stomach.
What is Telling them that puberty?
Telling them that puberty is a normal part of growing up.
What is Enteroscopy Double-balloon enteroscopy?
Enteroscopy Double-balloon enteroscopy is a time-consuming procedure that is being studied in the diagnosis of small bowel tumors, including carcinoids.[64,65] It is usually performed under general anesthesia, although it can be done under conscious sedation.
What is Zollinger-Ellison syndrome?
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is a rare disorder that occurs when one or more tumors form in the pancreas and duodenum.
What does MEN1 cause?
MEN1 causes hormone-releasing tumors in the endocrine glands and the duodenum.
What is The yearly wellness visit?
The yearly wellness visit is a great tool to help you stay healthy.
What is Medicare?
Medicare is a federal health insurance program.
What is Dukes B?
Dukes B is a composite of better T3, N0, M0 and worse T4, N0, M0 prognostic groups, as is Dukes C any T, N1, M0 and any T, N2, M0.
What is For Dukes B?
For Dukes B is a composite of better T3, N0, M0 and worse T4, N0, M0 prognostic groups, as is Dukes C any T, N1, M0 and any T, N2, M0.
What is is Dukes B?
is Dukes B is a composite of better T3, N0, M0 and worse T4, N0, M0 prognostic groups, as is Dukes C any T, N1, M0 and any T, N2, M0.
What is Cetuximab?
Cetuximab is a partially humanized monoclonal antibody against the epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR.
What is Panitumumab?
Panitumumab is a fully humanized antibody against the EGFR.
What is Pegylated liposomal encapsulated doxorubicin?
Pegylated liposomal encapsulated doxorubicin is a formulation of doxorubicin designed to prolong the half-life of circulating doxorubicin and slow the release of active drug.
What is TEE?
TEE is a type of echocardiography echo.
What is Cardiac catheterization?
Cardiac catheterization is a medical procedure used to diagnose and/or treat certain heart conditions.
What is Cardiac catheterization?
Cardiac catheterization is a common medical procedure.
What is Pathology NSCLC?
Pathology NSCLC is a heterogeneous aggregate of histologies.
What is Drowning?
Drowning is a leading cause of injury death for young children ages 1 to 4, and the fifth leading cause of unintentional injury death for people of all ages.
What does Nonfatal drowning cause?
Nonfatal drowning can cause brain damage that may result in long-term disabilities including memory problems, learning disabilities, and permanent loss of basic functions.
What does Ulcers from Crohn's disease cause?
Ulcers from Crohn's disease can cause tunnels to form through the inflamed areas, or even the healthy parts, of the intestine.
What is The transducer?
The transducer is a hand-held device that sends and receives ultrasound waves.
What is Bronchoscopy?
Bronchoscopy is a safe procedure.
What is Bronchoscopy?
Bronchoscopy is a safe procedure, and complications usually are minor.
What is A pneumothorax?
A pneumothorax is a condition in which air collects in the space around the lungs.
What is Hepatitis C?
Hepatitis C is a contagious liver disease that ranges in severity from a mild illness lasting a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness that attacks the liver.
What is Hepatitis C?
Hepatitis C is a serious liver disease caused by the hepatitis C virus HCV.
What is Breastfeeding?
Breastfeeding is a healthy choice for both moms and babies.
What is Bexarotene?
Bexarotene is a retinoid available in an oral or topical form.[10,11].
What is The typical choroidal melanoma?
The typical choroidal melanoma is a brown, elevated, dome-shaped subretinal mass.
What is Because the uveal tract?
Because the uveal tract is a vascular structure without lymphatic channels, tumor spread occurs principally by local extension and by dissemination through the blood stream.
What is Binge drinking?
Binge drinking is a risk factor for sexual assault, especially among young women in college settings.
What is The CT scanner?
The CT scanner is a large machine that has a hollow, circular tube in the center.
What is The CT scanner?
The CT scanner is a large machine that has a hollow, circular tube in the middle.
What is Concept mapping?
Concept mapping is a tool to assist in strategic planning that allows planners to work through a sequence of phases to produce a conceptual framework.
What is Concept mapping?
Concept mapping is a tool that helps with strategic planning.
What is Gastrin?
Gastrin is a hormone that causes the stomach to release an acid that helps digest food.
What is Glucagon?
Glucagon is a hormone that increases the amount of glucose in the blood.
What does Too much glucagon cause?
Too much glucagon causes hyperglycemia high blood sugar.
What does Sometimes pancreatic cancer cause?
Sometimes pancreatic cancer causes these ducts to narrow and block or slow the flow of bile, causing jaundice.
What does Conditions other than gastrinoma cause?
Conditions other than gastrinoma can cause an increase in the amount of gastrin in the blood.
What does Secretin cause?
Secretin causes the small intestine to make acid.
What is Multiple Myeloma Multiple myeloma?
Multiple Myeloma Multiple myeloma is a systemic malignancy of plasma cells that typically involves multiple sites within the bone marrow and secretes all or part of a monoclonal antibody.
What is Extramedullary plasmacytoma?
Extramedullary plasmacytoma is a highly curable disease with progression-free survival ranging from 70% to 87% at 10 to 14 years after treatment with radiation therapy with or without previous resection.[1,2,5].
What is food poisoning?
But food poisoning is a serious health risk for some people.
What is Paget's disease?
Paget's disease is a chronic disorder that can result in enlarged and misshapen bones.
What is Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis is a condition that causes changes in cartilage, the elastic tissue that cushions the joints.
What does How Does Paget's Disease cause?
How Does Paget's Disease Cause Osteoarthritis?
What is PSC?
PSC is a disease that damages and blocks bile ducts inside and outside the liver.
What is SAP?
SAP is a type of enzyme made by bone cells that is overproduced by pagetic bone.
What is Technically, a concussion?
Technically, a concussion is a short loss of consciousness in response to a head injury, but in common language the term has come to mean any minor injury to the head or brain.
What is A contusion?
A contusion is a distinct area of swollen brain tissue mixed with blood released from broken blood vessels.
What is Coma?
Coma is a state in which the patient is totally unconscious, unresponsive, unaware, and unarousable.
What does A TBI cause?
A TBI can cause problems with arousal, consciousness, awareness, alertness, and responsiveness.
What is The flu?
The flu is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses.
What is The uterine cervix?
The uterine cervix is a cylindrical, fibrous organ that is an average of 3 to 4 cm in length.
What is IMRT IMRT?
IMRT IMRT is a radiation therapy technique that allows for conformal dosing of target anatomy while sparing neighboring tissue.
What is Iron deficiency?
Iron deficiency is a condition resulting from too little iron in the body.
What is Iron deficiency?
Iron deficiency is a concern because it can:
What is Vitamin D-fortified milk?
Vitamin D-fortified milk is a good source of calcium and vitamin D, but not iron.
What does Iron deficiency cause?
Iron deficiency can cause fatigue that impairs the ability to do physical work in adults.
What does E. coli cause?
E. coli can cause diarrhea, urinary tract infections, respiratory illness, bloodstream infections, and other illnesses.
What does Some E. coli cause?
Some E. coli cause disease by making a toxin called Shiga toxin.
What is TS?
TS is a diagnosis that doctors make after verifying that the patient has had both motor and vocal tics for at least 1 year.
What is The rubella vaccine?
The rubella vaccine is a live attenuated weakened virus which is usually given as part of the MMR vaccine protecting against measles, mumps, and rubella.
What is Lapatinib Lapatinib?
Lapatinib Lapatinib is a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is capable of dual-receptor inhibition of both epidermal growth factor receptor and HER2. In the Adjuvant Lapatinib and/or Trastuzumab Treatment Optimization trial ALTTO [NCT00553358], the role of lapatinib in combination with, in sequence to, in comparison with, or as an alternative to trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting is being investigated.
What is Bevacizumab?
Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody that works against vascular endothelial growth factor A and has shown some degree of efficacy in the metastatic setting.
What is Trastuzumab?
Trastuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to the HER2/neu receptor.
What is Pertuzumab Pertuzumab?
Pertuzumab Pertuzumab is a humanized, monoclonal antibody that binds to a different epitope at the HER2 extracellular domain than trastuzumab.
What is Bevacizumab Bevacizumab?
Bevacizumab Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against all isoforms of vascular endothelial growth factor-A. Its role in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer remains controversial.
What is Bevacizumab Bevacizumab?
Bevacizumab Bevacizumab is a partially humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to vascular endothelial growth factor.
What is The beta-hCG?
The beta-hCG is a sensitive marker to indicate the presence or absence of disease before, during, and after treatment.
What is Choriocarcinoma Choriocarcinoma?
Choriocarcinoma Choriocarcinoma is a malignant tumor of the trophoblastic epithelium.
What is Beta-carotene?
Beta-carotene is a precursor for vitamin A. The body needs to convert it to retinol or vitamin A for use.
What is Gastritis?
Gastritis is a condition in which the stomach lining - known as the mucosa - is inflamed.
What is Gastritis?
Gastritis is a condition in which the stomach lining is inflamed.
What is Erosive gastritis?
Erosive gastritis is a type of gastritis that often does not cause significant inflammation but can wear away the stomach lining.
What is However, chronic gastritis?
However, chronic gastritis is a risk factor for peptic ulcer disease, gastric polyps, and benign and malignant gastric tumors.
What does Erosive gastritis cause?
Erosive gastritis can cause bleeding, erosions, or ulcers.
What does Erosive gastritis cause?
Erosive gastritis may cause ulcers or erosions in the stomach lining that can bleed.
What is Balamuthia mandrillaris?
Balamuthia mandrillaris is a free-living ameba a single-celled organism found in soil and dust.
What is Balamuthia?
Balamuthia is a free-living ameba found in the environment.
What is Balamuthia GAE?
Balamuthia GAE is a very rare but usually fatal disease.
What does Balamuthia cause?
Balamuthia can cause Balamuthia granulomatous amebic encephalitis GAE, a serious brain infection that is usually fatal.
What is Dystrophin?
Dystrophin is a protein found in muscle that helps muscles stay healthy and strong.
What does Contractures cause?
Contractures may cause elbows to become locked in a flexed position.
What is The shingles vaccine?
The shingles vaccine is a preventive therapy and not a treatment for those who already have shingles or postherpetic neuralgia.
What is Ehrlichiosis?
Ehrlichiosis is a serious illness that can be fatal if not treated correctly, even in previously healthy people.
What does Ehrlichia chaffeensis infection cause?
Ehrlichia chaffeensis infection can cause a rash in up to 60% of children, but is reported in fewer than 30% of adults.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a metabolic bone disease characterized by low bone mass, which makes bones fragile and susceptible to fracture.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture.
What is Osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a real risk for older Hispanics and Latinos.
What does Swine flu viruses cause?
Swine flu viruses can cause high levels of illness in swine herds, but usually cause few deaths.
What does Swine flu viruses cause?
Swine flu viruses can cause high levels of illness in pig herds, but cause few deaths in pigs.
What is Periodontitis?
Periodontitis is a chronic infection that affects the gums and the bones that support the teeth.
What is Although tooth loss?
Although tooth loss is a well-documented consequence of periodontitis, the relationship between periodontitis and skeletal bone density is less clear.
What is The Reed-Sternberg cell?
The Reed-Sternberg cell is a binucleated or multinucleated giant cell with a bilobed nucleus and two large nucleoli that give a characteristic owl's eye appearance.[4].
What is Dog flu?
Dog flu is a contagious respiratory disease in dogs caused by a specific Type A influenza virus referred to as a 'canine influenza virus.' This is a disease of dogs, not of humans.
What is Giardiasis?
Giardiasis is a diarrheal disease caused by the microscopic parasite Giardia.
What does Giardia infection cause?
Giardia infection can cause a variety of intestinal symptoms, which include:
What is Anaplasmosis?
Anaplasmosis is a disease caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilium.
What is Anaplasmosis?
Anaplasmosis is a tickborne disease caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilum.
What is SCD?
SCD is a group of inherited red blood cell disorders.
What is SCD?
SCD is a genetic condition that is present at birth.
What is SCD?
SCD is a serious condition that affects people around the world.
What is SCD?
SCD is a significant cause of mortality and morbidity that merits closer consideration.
What is Eating less sodium?
Eating less sodium is a challenge.
What is Hemiplegic migraine?
Hemiplegic migraine is a rare but severe form of migraine that causes temporary paralysis-sometimes lasting several days-on one side of the body prior to or during a headache.
What is Retinal migraine?
Retinal migraine is a condition characterized by attacks of visual loss or disturbances in one eye.
What is Paroxysmal hemicrania?
Paroxysmal hemicrania is a rare form of primary headache that usually begins in adulthood.
What is Paroxysmal hemicrania?
Paroxysmal hemicrania is a rare form of headache that usually begins in adulthood.
What does Serotonin cause?
Serotonin causes blood vessels to constrict and lowers the pain threshold.
What does Chronic tension headaches cause?
Chronic tension headaches can cause sore scalps-even combing your hair can be painful.
What does A ruptured cerebral aneurysm cause?
A ruptured cerebral aneurysm can cause hemorrhagic stroke and a sudden, incredibly painful headache that is generally different in severity and intensity from other headaches individuals may have experienced.
What is A flu pandemic?
A flu pandemic is a global outbreak of a new flu virus that spreads easily from person to person.
What is Shingles?
Shingles is a painful localized skin rash often with blisters that is caused by the varicella zoster virus VZV, the same virus that causes chickenpox.
What is BMI?
BMI is a fairly reliable indicator of body fatness for most people.
What is BMI?
BMI is a reliable indicator of body fatness for most children and teens.
What is BMI?
BMI is a number calculated from a person's weight and height.
What is Lupus?
Lupus is a prototypical autoimmune disease with a wide array of clinical manifestations rash, photosensitivity, oral ulcers, arthritis, pleuritis, pericarditis, kidney problems, seizures and psychosis, blood cell abnormalities.
What is Cancer of the colon?
Cancer of the colon is a highly treatable and often curable disease when localized to the bowel.
What is CEA?
CEA is a serum glycoprotein frequently used in the management of patients with colon cancer.
What is Aflibercept Aflibercept?
Aflibercept Aflibercept is a novel anti-VEGF molecule and has been evaluated as a component of second-line therapy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
What is Cetuximab Cetuximab?
Cetuximab Cetuximab is a partially humanized monoclonal antibody against the epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR.
What is Panitumumab Panitumumab?
Panitumumab Panitumumab is a fully humanized antibody against the EGFR.
What is Mohs micrographic surgery?
Mohs micrographic surgery is a form of tumor excision that involves progressive radial sectioning and real-time examination of the resection margins until adequate uninvolved margins have been achieved, avoiding wider margins than needed.
What is Mohs micrographic surgery?
Mohs micrographic surgery is a specialized technique used with the intent to achieve the narrowest margins necessary to avoid tumor recurrence, while maximally preserving cosmesis.
What is Mohs micrographic surgery?
Mohs micrographic surgery is a specialized technique used to achieve the narrowest margins necessary to avoid tumor recurrence, while maximally preserving cosmesis.
What is Actinic cheilitis?
Actinic cheilitis is a related condition that usually appears on the lower lips.
What is Actinic keratosis?
Actinic keratosis is a noninvasive lesion.
What is Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia?
Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia is a disease in which too many myelocytes and monocytes immature white blood cells are made in the bone marrow.
What is Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia?
Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia is a childhood disease in which too many myelocytes and monocytes immature white blood cells are made in the bone marrow.
What is Atypical chronic myelogenous leukemia?
Atypical chronic myelogenous leukemia is a disease in which too many granulocytes immature white blood cells are made in the bone marrow.
What is MDS/MPN-UC?
MDS/MPN-UC is a very rare disease.
What is A facemask?
A facemask is a loose-fitting, disposable device that creates a physical barrier between the mouth and nose of the wearer and potential contaminants in the immediate environment.
What is A respirator?
A respirator is a personal protective device that is worn on the face, covers at least the nose and mouth, and is used to reduce the wearer's risk of inhaling hazardous airborne particles including dust particles and infectious agents, gases, or vapors.
What is A commonly used respirator?
A commonly used respirator is a filtering facepiece respirator often referred to as an N95.
What is Teen depression?
Teen depression is a serious mental health problem.
What is A calorie?
A calorie is a calorie regardless of its source.
What is A saccular aneurysm?
A saccular aneurysm is a rounded or pouch-like sac of blood that is attached by a neck or stem to an artery or a branch of a blood vessel.
What is BCG?
BCG is a vaccine for TB.
What is BCG?
BCG is a vaccine for TB named after the French scientists who developed it, Calmette and Guerin.
What is An aneurysm?
An aneurysm is a diseased area of a blood vessel wall that bulges out.
What does RSV cause?
But RSV can cause severe lung infections, including bronchiolitis infection of tiny breathing passages and pneumonia.
What does Some types of HPV cause?
Some types of HPV can cause genital and anal warts.
What does Other types of HPV cause?
Other types of HPV can cause cervical cancer and other cancers.
What does In infants, Cronobacter infection cause?
In infants, Cronobacter infection can cause a very rare, but serious illness.
What is Nasopharyngeal Cancer Nasopharyngeal cancer?
Nasopharyngeal Cancer Nasopharyngeal cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the lining of the nasalcavity inside of the nose and throat.
What is Laryngeal cancer?
Laryngeal cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the tissues of the larynx.
What is A bronchoscope?
A bronchoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing.
What is A thoracoscope?
A thoracoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing.
What is The thymus?
The thymus is a small organ in the upper chest under the breastbone.
What is The thymus gland?
The thymus gland is a small organ that lies in the upper chest under the breastbone.
What is Mesothelioma Malignant mesothelioma?
Mesothelioma Malignant mesothelioma is a disease in which malignant cancer cells are found in the pleura the thin layer of tissue that lines the chest cavity and covers the lungs or the peritoneum the thin layer of tissue that lines the abdomen and covers most of the organs in the abdomen.
What is Pancreatic Cancer Pancreatic cancer?
Pancreatic Cancer Pancreatic cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the tissues of the pancreas.
What is Testicular Cancer Testicular cancer?
Testicular Cancer Testicular cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the tissues of one or both testicles.
What is Pheochromocytoma?
Pheochromocytoma is a tumor of the adrenal medulla.
What is Pheochromocytoma?
Pheochromocytoma is a rare tumor that forms in the adrenal medulla the center of the adrenal gland.
What is Pheochromocytoma?
Pheochromocytoma is a rare tumor of the adrenal medulla.
What is Chordoma Chordoma?
Chordoma Chordoma is a very rare type of bone tumor that forms anywhere along the spine from the base of the skull to the tailbone.
What does Nasopharyngeal cancer cause?
Nasopharyngeal cancer may cause any of the following signs and symptoms.
What does Esthesioneuroblastoma cause?
Esthesioneuroblastoma may cause any of the following signs and symptoms.
What does Laryngeal cancer cause?
Laryngeal cancer may cause any of the following signs and symptoms.
What does Bronchial tumors cause?
Bronchial tumors may cause any of the following signs and symptoms.
What does PPB cause?
PPB may cause any of the following signs and symptoms.
What does Esophageal cancer cause?
Esophageal cancer may cause any of the following signs and symptoms.
What does Thymoma and thymic carcinoma cause?
Thymoma and thymic carcinoma may cause any of the following signs and symptoms.
What does Mesothelioma cause?
Mesothelioma may cause any of the following signs and symptoms.
What does MEN syndromes cause?
MEN syndromes may cause hyperplasia the growth of too many normal cells or tumors that may be benign not cancer or malignant cancer.
What does MEN2B syndrome cause?
MEN2B syndrome may cause the following conditions:
What does Chordoma cause?
Chordoma may cause any of the following signs and symptoms.
What is CDC - Salmonella?
CDC - Salmonella is a Sneaky Germ: Seven Tips for Safer Eating.
What is Temporal arteritis?
Temporal arteritis is a common chronic inflammatory disease of large blood vessels occurring primarily in people 50 and older.
What does Vasculitis cause?
Vasculitis can cause problems in any organ system, including the central CNS and peripheral PNS nervous systems.
What is Ultrasound-guided percutaneous cryosurgery Cryosurgery?
Ultrasound-guided percutaneous cryosurgery Cryosurgery is a surgical technique that involves destruction of prostate cancer cells by intermittent freezing of the prostate with cryoprobes followed by thawing.[38][Level of evidence: 3iiiC]; [39,40][Level of evidence: 3iiiDiv] Cryosurgery is less well established than standard prostatectomy, and long-term outcomes are not as well established as with prostatectomy or radiation therapy.
What is Cryosurgery?
Cryosurgery is a surgical technique under development that involves destruction of prostate cancer cells by intermittent freezing of the prostate with cryoprobes, followed by thawing.[53][Level of evidence: 3iiiC]; [54]; [55][Level of evidence: 3iiiDiv] Cryosurgery is less well established than standard prostatectomy, and long-term outcomes are not as well established as with prostatectomy or radiation therapy.
What does Fecal incontinence Radical prostatectomy cause?
Fecal incontinence Radical prostatectomy may cause fecal incontinence, and the incidence may vary with surgical method.[50].
What does Like orchiectomy, estrogens cause?
Like orchiectomy, estrogens may cause loss of libido and impotence.
What does Estrogens also cause?
Estrogens also cause gynecomastia, and prophylactic low-dose radiation therapy to the breasts is given to prevent this complication.
What does Bicalutamide cause?
Bicalutamide may cause nausea, breast tenderness, hot flashes, loss of libido, and impotence.
What does Androgen deprivation therapy cause?
Androgen deprivation therapy can cause osteoporosis and bone fractures.
What does Even OTC medicines cause?
Even OTC medicines can cause side effects or harm you if you use too much or don't use them correctly.
What does Even OTC medicines cause?
Even OTC medicines can cause problems or harm you if you use too much or don't use them correctly.
What is Monoclonal antibodytherapy?
Monoclonal antibodytherapy is a type of targeted therapy being studied in the treatment of male breast cancer.
What is Monoclonal antibodytherapy?
Monoclonal antibodytherapy is a type of targeted therapy used to treat hairy cell leukemia.
What is The diaphragm?
The diaphragm is a dome-shaped muscle located below your lungs.
What is Thalassemia?
Thalassemia is a group of blood disorders passed from parents to children through genes inherited.
What does SCA cause?
SCA causes death if it's not treated within minutes..
What is Coronary angiography?
Coronary angiography is a common medical test.
What does Cardiac catheterization rarely cause?
Cardiac catheterization rarely causes serious complications.
What is Monkeypox?
Monkeypox is a rare viral disease that occurs mainly in the rain forest countries of central and west Africa.
What is Myasthenia gravis?
Myasthenia gravis is a chronic autoimmune neuromuscular disease characterized by varying degrees of weakness of the skeletal voluntary muscles of the body.
What is Uterine sarcoma?
Uterine sarcoma is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the muscles of the uterus or other tissues that support the uterus.
What is Uterine sarcoma?
Uterine sarcoma is a very rare kind of cancer that forms in the uterine muscles or in tissues that support the uterus.
What is A shunt?
A shunt is a flexible but sturdy plastic tube.
What is FAS?
FAS is a major public health problem in South Africa.
What does Salmonella germs cause?
Salmonella germs can cause diarrhea in people, which can be mild, severe, or even life threatening.
What is IPV?
IPV is a shot, given in the leg or arm, depending on age.
What is Autism?
Autism is a disorder of the brain.
What does AVMs also cause?
AVMs also can cause a wide range of more specific neurological symptoms that vary from person to person, depending primarily upon the location of the AVM.
What does Spinal AVMs frequently cause?
Spinal AVMs frequently cause attacks of sudden, severe back pain, often concentrated at the roots of nerve fibers where they exit the vertebrae; the pain is similar to that caused by a slipped disk.
What is Nasopharyngeal cancer?
Nasopharyngeal cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the tissues of the nasopharynx.
What is Nasopharyngeal cancer?
Nasopharyngeal cancer is a type of head and neck cancer.
What is Nasopharyngeal cancer?
Nasopharyngeal cancer is a type of head and neck cancer..
What is The pharynx?
The pharynx is a hollow tube about 5 inches long that starts behind the nose and ends at the top of the trachea windpipe and esophagus the tube that goes from the throat to the stomach.
What is Bacterial meningitis?
Bacterial meningitis is a rare but potentially fatal disease.
What is Narcolepsy?
Narcolepsy is a chronic brain disorder that involves poor control of sleep-wake cycles.
What is Narcolepsy?
Narcolepsy is a chronic neurological disorder caused by the brain's inability to regulate sleep-wake cycles normally.
What is Cataplexy?
Cataplexy is a sudden loss of muscle tone while the person is awake that leads to feelings of weakness and a loss of voluntary muscle control.
What is Sodium oxybate?
Sodium oxybate is a strong sedative that must be taken during the night.
What is Cardioversion usually?
Cardioversion usually is a scheduled procedure.
What is Thyroid cancer?
Thyroid cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the tissues of the thyroid gland.
What is The thyroid?
The thyroid is a gland at the base of the throat near the trachea windpipe.
What is A healthy thyroid?
A healthy thyroid is a little larger than a quarter.
What is Vulvar cancer?
Vulvar cancer is a rare disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the tissues of the vulva.
What is Anal cancer?
Anal cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the tissues of the anus.
What is Cardiac MRI?
Cardiac MRI is a common test.
What is Cardiac MRI?
Cardiac MRI is a fast, accurate tool that can help diagnose a heart attack.
What is Bone marrow?
Bone marrow is a sponge-like tissue inside the bones.
What is CLL?
CLL is a disorder of morphologically mature but immunologically less mature lymphocytes and is manifested by progressive accumulation of these cells in the blood, bone marrow, and lymphatic tissues.
What is Bendamustine?
Bendamustine is a cytotoxic agent with bifunctional properties of an alkylator and a purine analog.
What does Purine analogs cause?
Purine analogs cause less hair loss or nausea than combination chemotherapy, including alkylators and anthracyclines.[25].
What is Collagen?
Collagen is a material in bones that helps make them strong.
What is The prostate?
The prostate is a small sex gland that makes fluid to carry sperm.
What is 131I-MIBG?
131I-MIBG is a radioactive substance that collects in certain kinds of tumor cells, killing them with the radiation that is given off.
What is Ablation?
Ablation is a treatment to remove or destroy a body part or tissue or its function.
What is Vaginal cancer?
Vaginal cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the vagina.
What is Pulse oximetry?
Pulse oximetry is a simple bedside test to determine the amount of oxygen in a baby's blood and the baby's pulse rate.
What does Low lactase levels cause?
Low lactase levels can cause you to become lactose intolerant until your small intestine heals.
What does Hypertension promotes atherosclerosis and cause?
Hypertension promotes atherosclerosis and causes mechanical damage to the walls of blood vessels.
What is Second-look laparotomy?
Second-look laparotomy is a surgical procedure to find out if tumor cells are left after primary treatment.
What is Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis or NASH?
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis or NASH is a common, often 'silent' liver disease.
What is The pineal gland?
The pineal gland is a tiny organ in the brain that makes melatonin, a hormone that helps control the sleeping and waking cycle.
What is A mixed glioma?
A mixed glioma is a brain tumor that has two types of tumor cells in it - oligodendrocytes and astrocytes.
What is A grade I meningioma?
A grade I meningioma is a slow-growing tumor.
What is A craniopharyngioma?
A craniopharyngioma is a rare tumor that usually forms just above the pituitary gland a pea-sized organ at the bottom of the brain that controls other glands.
What is Batten disease?
Batten disease is a fatal, inherited disorder of the nervous system that typically begins in childhood.
What is Congenital NCL?
Congenital NCL is a very rare and severe form of NCL.
What does A testicular tumor cause?
A testicular tumor may cause a painless lump in the testicles.
What is The ureter?
The ureter is a long tube that connects the kidney to the bladder.
What is A ureteroscope?
A ureteroscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing.
What is Fulguration?
Fulguration is a surgical procedure that destroys tissue using an electric current.
What is Measles?
Measles is a highly contagious disease caused by a virus.
What is Lymphoma?
Lymphoma is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the lymph system.
What is A carotid endarterectomy?
A carotid endarterectomy is a surgical procedure in which a doctor removes fatty deposits blocking one of the two carotid arteries, the main supply of blood for the brain.
What is An MRA?
An MRA is a type of image that uses magnetism instead of X-rays to create an image of the carotid arteries.
What is Gastric cancer?
Gastric cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the lining of the stomach.
What is Bill?
Bill is a father of four children and was diagnosed with diabetes when he was an infant.
What is Michael?
Michael is a father and grandfather who began smoking at age 9 when his youngest sister offered him a cigarette.
What is Talking about healthy relationships?
Talking about healthy relationships is a great way to show you are available to listen and answer questions - so make sure to check in often with your teen.
What is Intercurrent opportunistic infection?
Intercurrent opportunistic infection is a risk that may also lead to a decrease in drug delivery.
What is Hairy cell leukemia?
Hairy cell leukemia is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes a type of white blood cell.
What is Hairy cell leukemia?
Hairy cell leukemia is a cancer of the blood and bone marrow.
What does Prolapsed hemorrhoids often cause?
Prolapsed hemorrhoids often cause pain, discomfort, and anal itching.
What does Thrombosed external hemorrhoids cause?
Thrombosed external hemorrhoids cause bleeding, painful swelling, or a hard lump around the anus.
What is DH?
DH is a rash that affects about 10 percent of people with celiac disease.
What is Hepatitis B?
Hepatitis B is a liver disease spread through contact with blood, semen, or other body fluids from a person infected with the hepatitis B virus.
What is Hepatitis B?
Hepatitis B is a contagious liver disease that results from infection with the Hepatitis B virus.
What is Hepatitis B?
Hepatitis B is a serious disease caused by a virus that attacks the liver.
What is Rett syndrome?
Rett syndrome is a neurodevelopmenal disorder that affects girls almost exclusively.
What is Although Rett syndrome?
Although Rett syndrome is a genetic disorder, less than 1 percent of recorded cases are inherited or passed from one generation to the next.
What is Clinical Behavior Childhood AT/RT?
Clinical Behavior Childhood AT/RT is a clinically aggressive tumor that primarily occurs in children younger than 3 years, but it also can occur in older children and has been reported in adults.[5,6] In about one-half of patients, the tumor is located in the posterior fossa, although it can occur anywhere in the CNS.[1].
What is AT/RT?
AT/RT is a rapidly growing tumor that can have an MIB-1 labeling index of 50% to 100%.[2] Immunohistochemistry for INI1 protein is useful in establishing the diagnosis of AT/RT.
What is Bell's palsy?
Bell's palsy is a form of temporary facial paralysis resulting from damage or trauma to the facial nerves.
What is Bell's palsy?
Bell's palsy is a form of temporary facial paralysis resulting from damage or trauma to one of the facial nerves.
What is A concussion?
A concussion is a type of traumatic brain injury that changes the way the brain normally works.
What is A concussion?
A concussion is a brain injury caused by a bump or blow to the head that can change the way your brain normally works.
What is Concussion?
Concussion is a serious injury.
What is A family reunion?
A family reunion is a good time to share family history - people, events, places, and dates.
What does The flu also cause?
The flu also can cause certain health conditions, like diabetes, asthma, and heart and lung disease, to become worse.
What does Group A strep cause?
Group A strep can cause a range of infections, from a sore throat, called strep throat, to skin infections, like impetigo.
What does FAS cause?
FAS can cause differences in the structure of the brain.
What is C. difficile?
C. difficile is a germ that causes diarrhea and other intestinal problems linked to 14,000 U.S. deaths annually.
What is Rabies?
Rabies is a medical urgency not an emergency.
What is Rabies?
Rabies is a dangerous virus that is found in the saliva of animals.
What is Rabies?
Rabies is a dangerous virus that is transmitted through the saliva of animals.
What is Rabies?
Rabies is a deadly virus that can kill anyone who gets it.
What is While polio?
While polio is a contagious disease, PPS cannot be caught from others having the disorder.
What is Gallbladder cancer?
Gallbladder cancer is a disease in which malignant cancer cells form in the tissues of the gallbladder.
What is Gallbladder cancer?
Gallbladder cancer is a rare disease in which malignant cancer cells are found in the tissues of the gallbladder.
What does Sometimes gallbladder cancer cause?
Sometimes gallbladder cancer causes these ducts to narrow and block or slow the flow of bile, causing jaundice.
What is Because TSC?
Because TSC is a lifelong condition, individuals need to be regularly monitored by a doctor to make sure they are receiving the best possible treatments.
What does TSC usually cause?
TSC usually causes the greatest problems for those affected and their family members through effects on brain function.
What is Secondhand smoke?
Secondhand smoke is a mixture of gases and fine particles.
What does Secondhand smoke cause?
Secondhand smoke causes about 46,000 heart disease deaths and 3,400 lung cancer deaths among U.S. nonsmoking adults annually.
What does Secondhand smoke cause?
Secondhand smoke causes immediate harm and hurts anyone who breathes it.
What does Secondhand smoke cause?
Secondhand smoke causes heart disease, lung cancer, sudden infant death syndrome SIDS, and other serious health problems.
What does Secondhand smoke cause?
Secondhand smoke causes heart disease.
What does Secondhand smoke also cause?
Secondhand smoke also causes death and sickness in children.
What does How Tobacco Smoke cause?
How Tobacco Smoke Causes Disease: What it Means to You.
What is Salmonella?
Salmonella is a type of germ that naturally lives in the intestines of poultry and many other animals.
What is Salmonella?
Salmonella is a bacteria and a common cause of foodborne illness, sometimes called food poisoning. In the past few years, large outbreaks of illness caused by Salmonella-contaminated eggs and peanut products have made the headlines.
What is Hepatitis E?
Hepatitis E is a liver infection that is thought to be rare in the United States, although it is common in many parts of the world.
What does Cholera cause?
Cholera can cause severe diarrhea and can be very serious if left untreated.
What is OA?
OA is a painful joint disease that can place severe limits on daily activity and quality of life.
What does OA often cause?
OA often causes weakness and disability, interferes with work productivity, and results in joint replacement.
What is Dystonia?
Dystonia is a disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions that cause slow repetitive movements or abnormal postures.
What is Cranio-facial dystonia?
Cranio-facial dystonia is a term used to describe dystonia that affects the muscles of the head, face, and neck such as blepharospasm.
What is Musician's dystonia?
Musician's dystonia is a term used to classify focal dystonias affecting musicians, specifically their ability to play an instrument or to perform.
What is DYT1 dystonia?
DYT1 dystonia is a rare form of dominantly inherited generalized dystonia that can be caused by a mutation in the DYT1 gene.
What does This dystonia cause?
This dystonia may cause difficulties with opening and closing the jaw, and speech and swallowing can be affected.
What is Meningococcal meningitis?
Meningococcal meningitis is a bacterial infection that can make the lining of the brain and spinal cord swell.
What does Like many vaccines, MCV4 cause?
Like many vaccines, MCV4 may cause mild side effects, like redness and soreness where the shot was given usually in the arm.
What is Meningitis?
Meningitis is a very serious infection of the tissue around the brain and spinal cord.
What does HPV cause?
HPV can cause cervical cancer in women and genital warts and anal cancer in women and men.
What does HPV cause?
HPV can cause some types of cancers later in life.
What does For example, meningitis cause?
For example, meningitis can cause the loss of an arm or leg or even death.
What is Prevent GBS?
Prevent GBS is a free app available for iOS and Android devices that lets healthcare providers easily access patient-specific group B strep guidance from anywhere and at any time.
What does The pain from shingles cause?
The pain from shingles can cause depression, anxiety, difficulty concentrating, loss of appetite, and weight loss.
What does GBS cause?
GBS can cause symptoms that last for a few weeks.
What is IMS III?
IMS III is a randomized, multi-center trial which was designed to evaluate whether the combined use of intravenous IV tPA and an FDA cleared intra-arterial IA device therapy and/or additional intra-arterial tPA was better than IV t-PA alone for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke.
What is Occasionally the neuropathy?
Occasionally the neuropathy is a symptom of another disorder.
What is Multifocal motor neuropathy?
Multifocal motor neuropathy is a form of inflammatory neuropathy that affects motor nerves exclusively; it may be chronic or acute.
What does Whooping cough cause?
Whooping cough can cause violent and rapid coughing, over and over, until the air is gone from the lungs and you are forced to inhale with a loud whooping sound.
What is Perchlorate?
Perchlorate is a chemical that occurs naturally in the environment and is also used in explosives, fireworks, road flares, and rocket motors.
What is Rubella?
Rubella is a contagious disease caused by a virus.
What is Stress?
Stress is a normal part of life.
What does Stress cause?
Stress causes tension in your muscles.
What does Hemochromatosis cause?
Hemochromatosis causes extra iron to gradually build up in the body's tissues and organs.
What does Congenital CMV infection cause?
Congenital CMV infection can cause hearing loss, seizures and developmental disabilities.
What is Bronchiolitis obliterans?
Bronchiolitis obliterans is a serious lung disease that is irreversible.
What is TN?
TN is a form of neuropathic pain pain associated with nerve injury or nerve lesion. The typical or classic form of the disorder called Type 1 or TN1 causes extreme, sporadic, sudden burning or shock-like facial pain that lasts anywhere from a few seconds to as long as two minutes per episode.
What is Since TN?
Since TN is a progressive disorder that often becomes resistant to medication over time, individuals often seek surgical treatment.
What is Thimerosal?
Thimerosal is a mercury-based preservative that has been used for decades in the United States in multi-dose vials vials containing more than one dose of some vaccines to prevent the growth of germs, bacteria and fungi, that can contaminate them.
What is Chronic Hepatitis B?
Chronic Hepatitis B is a global public health issue.
What is Medically-intractable or uncontrolled epilepsy?
Medically-intractable or uncontrolled epilepsy is a type of epilepsy that cannot be controlled with medication.
What is Viral hepatitis?
Viral hepatitis is a major global health threat and affects over 4.4 million Americans.
What is Hepatitis A?
Hepatitis A is a virus that can spread through food or water contaminated with fecal matter, even in microscopic amounts.
What is Hepatitis A?
Hepatitis A is a liver disease caused by the hepatitis A virus HAV.
What is ML II?
ML II is a particularly severe form of ML that resembles one of the mucopolysaccharidoses called Hurler syndrome.
What is Chickenpox?
Chickenpox is a very contagious disease.
What does Chickenpox cause?
Chickenpox causes a blister-like rash, itching, tiredness, and fever.
What is CHANGE?
CHANGE is a data-collection tool and planning resource for community members interested in making their community a healthier one.
What is Homelessness?
Homelessness is a risk factor for TB.
What does However, CJD cause?
However, CJD causes unique changes in brain tissue which can be seen at autopsy.
What is BRFSS?
BRFSS is a survey of households with landline telephones, so the results might not be representative of certain segments of the U.S. population.
What is BRFSS?
BRFSS is a state-based telephone health survey that collects information on health risk behaviors, preventive health practices, and health care access primarily related to chronic disease and injury.
What is Diacetyl?
Diacetyl is a chemical that was found to be a prominent volatile constituent in butter flavoring and air at the microwave popcorn plant initially investigated by NIOSH.
What is An ICH?
An ICH is a type of stroke in which a blood vessel ruptures or bursts inside the brain.
What does Bites from bed bugs cause?
Bites from bed bugs can cause large, itchy bumps on some people, but other people don't have any reaction at all.
What is Youth violence?
Youth violence is a public health crisis in the United States.
What is Youth violence prevention?
Youth violence prevention is a shared responsibility among all those who shape the many relationships and environments in which youth develop.
What is CP?
CP is a group of disorders that affects a person's ability to move and maintain balance and posture.
What is Localization-related epilepsy?
Localization-related epilepsy is a type of epilepsy that starts in only one part of the brain.
What is Parkinson's disease?
Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurological disorder that results from degeneration of neurons in a region of the brain that controls movement.
What is Cerebellar tremor?
Cerebellar tremor is a slow tremor of the extremities that occurs at the end of a purposeful movement intention tremor, such as trying to press a button or touching a finger to the tip of one's nose.
What is Enhanced physiologic tremor?
Enhanced physiologic tremor is a strengthening of physiologic tremor to more visible levels.
What is The Tracking Network?
The Tracking Network is a tool that can help us estimate how solving one problem can help solve the other.
What is Palatal myoclonus?
Palatal myoclonus is a regular, rhythmic contraction of one or both sides of the rear of the roof of the mouth, called the soft palate.
What is MJD?
MJD is a progressive disease, meaning that symptoms worsen with time.
What is MJD?
MJD is a progressive disease, meaning that symptoms get worse with time.
What is The H5N1 Inventory?
The H5N1 Inventory is a list of naturally-occurring changes in the genetic makeup of H5N1 influenza viruses that may affect how these viruses infect and spread in mammalian hosts including humans, or whether these viruses become resistant to influenza antiviral drugs.
What is Mercury?
Mercury is a toxin that occurs in the environment naturally and as a result of industrial pollution.
What is In fact, TBI?
In fact, TBI is a contributing factor to a third of all injury-related deaths in the United States.
What is FoodNet?
FoodNet is a collaborative project of the CDC, 10 state health departments California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland, Minnesota, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, and Tennessee, the U.S. Department of Agriculture USDA, and the Food and Drug Administration FDA.
What does Hib bacteria cause?
Hib bacteria can cause invasive disease, including life-threatening infections such as:
What is Prostate cancer?
Prostate cancer is a type of cancer that mostly affects older men.
What is The male prostate?
The male prostate is a small sex gland that makes fluid to carry sperm.
What does Although norovirus usually cause?
Although norovirus usually causes a mild illness, norovirus is a leading cause of foodborne deaths because it affects so many people.
What is Leigh's disease?
Leigh's disease is a rare inherited neurometabolic disorder that affects the central nervous system.
What is Microsoft Excel?
Microsoft Excel is a spreadsheet program used to calculate, analyze, and store data.
What is Spina bifida?
Spina bifida is a serious birth defect that happens when the spine does not close correctly.
What is Because household dust?
Because household dust is a major source of lead, you should wet-mop floors and wet-wipe horizontal surfaces every 2-3 weeks.
What is Leptospirosis?
Leptospirosis is a disease caused by bacteria.
What is Child Maltreatment?
Child Maltreatment is a significant public health problem in the United States.
What is While child maltreatment?
While child maltreatment is a significant public health problem, it is also a preventable one.
What does Child maltreatment cause?
Child maltreatment causes stress that can disrupt early brain development, and serious chronic stress can harm the development of the nervous and immune systems.
What is Sodium?
Sodium is a component of salt and is measured in milligrams.
What is Meralgia paresthetica?
Meralgia paresthetica is a disorder characterized by tingling, numbness, and burning pain in the outer side of the thigh.
What is Tourette Syndrome?
Tourette Syndrome is a disorder that affects the nervous system.
What does Some eye conditions cause?
Some eye conditions can cause vision loss and even blindness.
What is Violence?
Violence is a serious public health problem and CDC is committed to stopping violence before it begins.
What is Schilder's disease?
Schilder's disease is a rare progressive demyelinating disorder which usually begins in childhood.
What is Hypertonia?
Hypertonia is a condition in which there is too much muscle tone so that arms or legs, for example, are stiff and difficult to move.
What is Cephalic?
Cephalic is a term that means head or head end of the body. Congenital means the disorder is present at, and usually before, birth.
What is ANENCEPHALY?
ANENCEPHALY is a neural tube defect that occurs when the cephalic head end of the neural tube fails to close, usually between the 23rd and 26th days of pregnancy, resulting in the absence of a major portion of the brain, skull, and scalp.
What is HOLOPROSENCEPHALY?
HOLOPROSENCEPHALY is a disorder characterized by the failure of the prosencephalon the forebrain of the embryo to develop.
What is HYDRANENCEPHALY?
HYDRANENCEPHALY is a rare condition in which the cerebral hemispheres are absent and replaced by sacs filled with cerebrospinal fluid.
What is MICROCEPHALY?
MICROCEPHALY is a neurological disorder in which the circumference of the head is smaller than average for the age and gender of the infant or child.
What is SCHIZENCEPHALY?
SCHIZENCEPHALY is a rare developmental disorder characterized by abnormal slits, or clefts, in the cerebral hemispheres.
What is Schizencephaly?
Schizencephaly is a form of porencephaly.
What is MACROCEPHALY?
MACROCEPHALY is a condition in which the head circumference is larger than average for the age and gender of the infant or child.
What is Smoke from wildfires?
Smoke from wildfires is a mixture of gases and fine particles from burning trees and other plant materials.
What is Radon?
Radon is a natural radioactive gas that you can't see, smell, or taste.
What is Arachnoiditis?
Arachnoiditis is a disorder that causes chronic pain and neurological deficits and does not improve significantly with treatment.
What does In severe cases, arachnoiditis cause?
In severe cases, arachnoiditis may cause paralysis of the lower limbs.
What is Aicardi syndrome?
Aicardi syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that primarily affects newborn girls.
What is Sometimes tremor?
Sometimes tremor is a symptom of another neurological disorder or a side effect of certain drugs, but the most common form occurs in otherwise healthy people.
What is The brachial plexus?
The brachial plexus is a network of nerves that conducts signals from the spine to the shoulder, arm, and hand.
What is A cerebral aneurysm?
A cerebral aneurysm is a weak or thin spot on a blood vessel in the brain that balloons out and fills with blood.
What is CESD?
CESD is a less severe variant of Wolman's disease, with later onset.
What is Colpocephaly?
Colpocephaly is a congenital brain abnormality in which the occipital horns - the posterior or rear portion of the lateral ventricles cavities of the brain -- are larger than normal because white matter in the posterior cerebrum has failed to develop or thicken.
What is IRD?
IRD is a fatal disease, but some children will survive into their teens and twenties, and possibly even beyond.
What is Pinched nerve?
Pinched nerve is a common cause of on-the-job injury.
What is TBI?
TBI is a contributing factor to a third 30.5% of all injury-related deaths in the United States, or about 52,000 deaths annually.
What is ESS?
ESS is a condition that is often discovered during tests for pituitary disorders, when radiological imaging of the pituitary gland reveals a sella turcica that appears to be empty.
What is Hypotonia?
Hypotonia is a medical term used to describe decreased muscle tone.
What is PPS?
PPS is a very slowly progressing condition marked by long periods of stability.
What is Neurosyphilis?
Neurosyphilis is a disease of the coverings of the brain, the brain itself, or the spinal cord.
What does Meningovascular syphilis cause?
Meningovascular syphilis causes the same symptoms as meningeal syphilis but affected individuals also have strokes.
What is Hydrocephalus?
Hydrocephalus is a condition in which the primary characteristic is excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid CSF -- the clear fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord.
What is A myopathy?
A myopathy is a disorder of the muscles that usually results in weakness.
What is Congenital fiber-type disproportion myopathy?
Congenital fiber-type disproportion myopathy is a rare disorder that begins with floppiness, limb and facial weakness, and breathing problems.
What is Hyaline body myopathy?
Hyaline body myopathy is a disorder characterized by the specific appearance under the microscope of a sample of muscle tissue.
What is Piriformis syndrome?
Piriformis syndrome is a rare neuromuscular disorder that occurs when the piriformis muscle compresses or irritates the sciatic nerve-the largest nerve in the body.
What is The piriformis muscle?
The piriformis muscle is a narrow muscle located in the buttocks.
What is Pompe disease?
Pompe disease is a rare estimated at 1 in every 40,000 births, inherited and often fatal disorder that disables the heart and skeletal muscles.
What is Coffin-Lowry syndrome?
Coffin-Lowry syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by craniofacial head and facial and skeletal abnormalities, mental retardation, short stature, and hypotonia.
What is Corticobasal degeneration?
Corticobasal degeneration is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by nerve cell loss and atrophy shrinkage of multiple areas of the brain including the cerebral cortex and the basal ganglia.
